{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Event Desc|En No|Site Name|Licensee Name|Region No|City Name|State Cd|County Name|License No|Agreement State Ind|Docket No|Unit Ind1|Unit Ind2|Unit Ind3|Reactor Type|Nrc Notified By|Ops Officer|Notification Dt|Notification Time|Event Dt|Event Time|Time Zone|Last Updated Dt|Emergency Class|Cfr Cd1|Cfr Descr1|Cfr Cd2|Cfr Descr2|Cfr Cd3|Cfr Descr3|Cfr Cd4|Cfr Descr4|Staff Name1|Org Abbrev1|Staff Name2|Org Abbrev2|Staff Name3|Org Abbrev3|Staff Name4|Org Abbrev4|Staff Name5|Org Abbrev5|Staff Name6|Org Abbrev6|Staff Name7|Org Abbrev7|Staff Name8|Org Abbrev8|Staff Name9|Org Abbrev9|Staff Name10|Org Abbrev10|Scram Code 1|RX CRIT 1|Initial PWR 1|Initial RX Mode1|Current PWR 1|Current RX Mode 1|Scram Code 2|RX CRIT 2|Initial PWR 2|Initial RX Mode 2|Current PWR 2|Current RX Mode 2|Scram Code 3|RX CRIT 3|Initial PWR 3|Initial RX Mode 3|Current PWR 3|Current RX Mode 3|Event Text|\
Power Reactor|55265|Palo Verde|Arizona Nuclear Power Project|4|Wintersburg|AZ|Maricopa||Y||2|||[1] CE,[2] CE,[3] CE|Jason Hill|Jeffrey Whited|05/19/2021|8:35:00|05/19/2021|3:15:00|MST|7/2/2021 7:48:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(2)(iv)(B)|RPS Actuation - Critical|50.72(b)(3)(iv)(A)|Valid Specif Sys Actuation|50.72(b)(3)(v)(D)|Accident Mitigation|50.72(b)(3)(ii)(B)|Unanalyzed Condition|YOUNG, CALE|R4|||||||||||||||||||A/R|Y|100|Power Operation|0|Hot Standby||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/2/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AUTOMATIC REACTOR TRIP DUE TO HIGH PRESSURIZER PRESSURE    "At 0315 MST on May 19, 2021, Unit 2 reactor automatically tripped during testing of the Plant Protection System. The Reactor Protection System actuated to trip the reactor on High Pressurizer Pressure, although no plant protection setpoints were exceeded. Main Steam Isolation Signal (MSIS), Safety Injection Actuation Signal (SIAS), and Containment Isolation Actuation Signal (CIAS) were received. No injection of water into the Reactor Coolant System occurred. Auxiliary Feedwater Actuation Signals (AFAS) 1 and 2 actuated on low Steam Generator water level post trip as designed. This event is being reported as a reactor protection system and a specified system actuation in accordance with the reporting criteria of 10 CFR 50.72(b)(2)(iv)(B) and 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(iv)(A).    "Following the reactor trip, all [Control Element Assemblies] CEAs inserted fully into the core. All systems operated as expected. No emergency plan classification was required per the Emergency Plan. Safety related busses remained powered during the event from offsite power and the offsite power grid is stable. Unit 2 is stable and in Mode 3. Steam Generator heat removal is via the class 1 E powered motor driven auxiliary feedwater pump and Atmospheric Dump Valves.    "The NRC Senior Resident Inspector has been informed."    * * * UPDATE ON 5/19/21 AT 1351 EDT FROM JASON HILL TO BRIAN P. SMITH * * *    "The Unit 2 reactor tripped because of actual High Pressurizer Pressure that occurred as a result of a Main Steam Isolation Signal actuation.     "At 0337 MST, both trains of Low Pressure and High Pressure Safety Injection (LPSI and HPSI) were made inoperable when the injection valves were overridden and closed in accordance with station procedures. At 0346 MST, in accordance with station procedures, both trains of Containment Spray, LPSI, and HPSI pumps were overridden and stopped, rendering Containment Spray inoperable as well. This represents a condition that would have prevented the fulfillment of a safety function required to mitigate the consequences of an accident per 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(v)(D). Additionally, at the time of the Safety Injection Actuation Signal (0315 MST), both trains of Emergency Diesel Generators actuated as required and both 4160 VAC busses remained energized from off-site power.    "The NRC Senior Resident Inspector has been informed."    Notified R4DO (Young)     * * * UPDATE ON 7/02/21 AT 1943 EDT FROM YOLANDA GOOD TO JEFFREY WHITED * * *    "The inoperability of both trains of Low Pressure and High Pressure Safety Injection (LPSI and HPSI) and both trains of Containment Spray (CS) following the Unit 2 reactor trip has been determined to be an unanalyzed condition per 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(ii)(B). Additionally, inoperability of both trains of HPSI resulted in a reportable condition that could prevent fulfillment of its credited safety function to maintain the reactor in a safe shutdown condition per 10 CFR 50. 72(b)(3)(v)(A). The additional reporting criteria were discovered during review of the event and corresponding safety analyses.    "The NRC Senior Resident Inspector has been informed."    Notified R4DO (Werner)  |\
Agreement State|55280|MA RADIATION CONTROL PROGRAM|Thermo Scientific Portable Analytical Instruments Inc.|1|Tewksbury|MA||55-0238|Y||||||Anthony Carpenito|Jeffrey Whited|05/27/2021|22:11:00|05/27/2021|15:51:00|EDT|7/2/2021 8:57:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||BOWER, FRED|R1DO|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/2/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - LEAKING SOURCE    The following was received from the Massachusetts Radiation Control Program via email:    "At 1551 EDT on May 27, 2021, the Massachusetts Radiation Control Program received a phone call from the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) of Thermo Scientific Portable Analytical Instruments, License Number 55-0238. The RSO stated that a source was removed from the licensee's manufactured device that was sent to them for servicing. During this receipt procedure, a wipe sample taken on the device resulted in positive contamination. The Nickel-63 source was found to be leaking and the wipe test indicated a removable contamination level of 0.0728 microcurie. The limit for reporting the activity is 0.005 microcurie.    "Further information will be forthcoming as the event is under investigation."    * * * UPDATE ON MAY 28, 2021 AT 1603 EDT FROM ANTHONY CARPENITO TO BRIAN P. SMITH * * *    The following update was received from the Massachusetts Radiation Control Program [MRCP] via email:    "The licensee notified the MRCP at 1202 [EDT] on May 28, 2021 to correct and update its earlier report. The sealed source isotope of interest is Iron-55 (Fe-55), not Nickel-63 as reported earlier, and the source activity is 20 millicuries. [The] Source was contained within an X-ray fluorescence device Model XLi 969, SN 5249. The customer had shipped the device to the licensee for decommissioning rather than service/repair. The accompanying leak test result prior to shipment was negative for contamination. Wipe survey results for areas within the licensee's facility where the device had been were negative for contamination. End of update."    Notified R1DO (Bower) and NMSS Events Notification    * * * UPDATE ON JULY 2, 2021 AT 1603 EDT FROM SZYMON MUDREWICZ TO JEFFREY WHITED * * *    The following update was received from the MRCP via email:    "The only update to this event is the MA docket number as referenced in the subject above [MA Event Docket 17-4568]. There are currently no other updates to this event at the moment."    MA Event Docket: 17-4568    Notified R1DO (Lilliendahl) and NMSS Events Notification  |\
Agreement State|55284|TEXAS DEPT OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES|IRIS NDT|4|Houston|TX||L-06435|Y||||||Karen Blanchard|Kerby Scales|05/30/2021|18:43:00|05/28/2021|15:00:00|CDT|7/9/2021 8:23:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||GEPFORD, HEATHER|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|WILLIAMS, KEVIN|DIR MSST|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/9/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - POTENTIAL OVEREXPOSURE TO RADIOGRAPHER    The following was received from the Texas Department of State Health Services via email:    "On May 30, 2021, at approximately [1500] CDT one of the licensee's radiographers reported to the radiation safety officer that on May 28, 2021, he had handled a collimator while the source was in it.  The radiographer was using a SPEC 150 camera with a 22 curie Iridium-192 source.  The radiographer had taken a shot on top of a 2-inch pipe on a pipe stand.  He then set up for the next shot by taking hold of the collimator (back, shielded side) and slid it down to the side of the pipe (90 degree).  The beam was always facing the pipe.  When he walked back to the camera to crank out the source, he found he had not cranked it back in after the first shot.  The radiographer was not wearing an alarming rate meter, a pocket dosimeter, or a dosimetry badge, and he was not carrying/using a survey meter at the time of the incident.  The licensee's initial, rough calculations indicate the dose will be lower than the reporting criteria used for this report, but until they can get more information, this report is being made as an immediate report.  The radiographer was seen by a physician today and the licensee reported white blood cell counts were normal.  The licensee is investigating the event and also why the radiographer did not report the incident when it occurred. More information will be provided as it is obtained in accordance with SA-300."    Texas Incident number not assigned as of the time of the report.      * * * RETRACTION ON 7/9/21 AT 0809 EDT FROM ART TUCKER TO KERBY SCALES * * *    The following was received from the Texas Department of State Health Services (the Agency) via email:    "On May 30, 2021, the Agency was informed by the licensee that on May 30, 2021, at approximately [1500] CDT one of the licensee's radiographers reported to the radiation safety officer that on May 28, 2021, he had handled a collimator while the source was in it.  The radiographer was using a SPEC 150 camera with a 22 Curie Iridium-192 source.  The radiographer had taken a shot on top of a 2-inch pipe on a pipe stand.  He then set up for the next shot by taking hold of the collimator (back, shielded side) and slid it down to side of the pipe (90 degree).  The beam was always facing the pipe.  When he walked back to the camera to crank out the source, he found he had not cranked it back in after the first shot.  The radiographer was not wearing an alarming rate meter, a pocket dosimeter, or a dosimetry badge, and he was not carrying/using a survey meter at the time of the incident.  The licensee conducted a reenactment of the radiographer's actions on June 1, 2021.  The Agency conducted an on-line meeting with the licensee on June 16, 2021 and reviewed the video.  Using the reenactment and the National Council on Radiation Protection (NCRP) 41 table 6, it was determined that the exposure to the radiographer's fingers was 31.28 Rem (exposed for 2 seconds) and to the remainder of his hand was 7.629 Rem (exposed for 6 seconds collimator 4.25 half-layer values (HLVS)).  The whole-body dose was 124.68 milliRem.  No exposure limits were exceeded."    Texas Incident Number: 9853    Notified R4DO (Warnick), NMSS Events and DIR MSST (Williams) via email.  |\
Agreement State|55292|UTAH DIVISION OF RADIATION CONTROL|Rio Tinto Kennecott|4|South Jordan|UT||UT1800289|Y||||||Gwyn Galloway|Bethany Cecere|06/04/2021|19:03:00|06/03/2021|0:00:00|MDT|7/1/2021 5:48:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||GROOM, JEREMY|R4|ILTAB, |EMAIL|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/30/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - MISSING FIXED GAUGING DEVICE    The following information from the state of Utah was received by email:    "The Utah Division of Waste Management and Radiation Control (DWMRC) was notified by the licensee that a fixed gauge was missing on 06/04/2021 at approximately 1430 MST.     "The licensee was reconfiguring a portion of their facility and had relocated a number of gauges from one location to another location in their operations for use at the new location.  One of the fixed gauging devices, a Thermo Fisher, model 5202, serial number B3339, containing 500 milliCuries of cesium-137 (Cs-137) would not fit at the new location.  The fixed gauge was supposed to be removed from the hopper where it was located and placed in storage for future use.  For some reason, this removal did not occur.  The fixed gauge was left in place and had not been moved to a secured storage location.  The shutter on the gauge was locked in the closed position.      "Yesterday afternoon (06/03/2021), the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) was notified that the structure that the gauge had been located on had been demolished and the whereabouts of the gauge was not known.  All of the materials from the demolition of the structure are still located in the area and are on the licensee's property.  The licensee's staff began looking for the device.  At about 1000 to 1100 MST this morning (06/04/2021), the licensee indicated that they had verified which gauge was missing and that it could not be located.  The RSO began notifying all of the company personnel he is to notify when this occurs.  The RSO thought he had 24 hours to report the gauge as missing to the DWMRC instead of the immediate notification that was required and did not immediately notify the DWMRC.      "At this point, the licensee is continuing to search through the demolished parts of the structure for the gauge and will continue to do so.  The materials from the demolition are not to be relocated or removed from the licensee's property until a through search of all of the materials can be made or the device is located.  The DWMRC will conduct an on-site investigation of this issue."    UT Event Report ID No.: UT-21-0001    * * * UPDATE ON 7/1/21 AT 1744 EDT FROM CONLEY CHRISTOFFERSEN TO BETHANY CECERE * * *    The following is a synopsis of information reported by the state of Utah by email:    "The device is a density meter used in a conveyance system. The conveyance system has been recently upgraded. Several similar devices were transferred to the upgraded system. This device was not scheduled to be transferred and was to be placed in storage for evaluation upon the completion of the project. Miscommunication occurred in that this device was not removed when the other devices were transferred and was instead left in place during initial demolition activities of the conveyance system. The device remained onsite, located in a pile of the larger scrap materials pending further processing (size reduction and sorting) prior to offsite recycling. It was in this scrap pile that the device was recovered intact.    "The device was located and recovered shortly after the recovery effort began on June 10, 2021, and transported offsite for disposal on June 11, 2021."    Notified R4DO (Werner), NMSS Events Notification, and ILTAB (email).    THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf  |\
Agreement State|55309|GEORGIA RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL PGM|Hurst Boiler Company|1|Coolridge |GA||GA 918-1|Y||||||Stacy Allman|Thomas Kendzia|06/16/2021|10:14:00|06/07/2021|0:00:00|EDT|7/7/2021 5:02:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||LILLIENDAHL, JON|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|ILTAB, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/6/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - SOURCE LOST DURING SHIPPING    The following was received from the Georgia Radioactive Materials Program (Agency) via email:    "Hurst Boiler Welding Company used [a common carrier] to ship a source changer back to QSA Global. It was shipped on May 19, 2021, and officially declared lost on 6/14/21. Hurst Boiler reported the loss to [the Agency] on 6/16/21. The licensee intended to ship a source changer back to QSA global via [a common carrier] on 5/19/2021. After approximately 14 days without a confirmation of receipt. The licensee contacted [the common carrier] on 6/14/21, who confirmed the source had been lost. The Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) then contacted [the Agency] on 6/16/21. When speaking with the RSO by phone, he stated the source changer contains an Ir-192 source (Serial # 9887G Model SC-800). The source activity when shipped (5/19/21) was 8.3 Ci and as of 6/16/21 it has decayed to 6.3 Ci. The most current leak test was performed on 8/31/21. The RSO was advised to provide a written report and submit all supporting documents as soon as possible."    Georgia Incident #41    * * * UPDATE ON 7/7/21 AT 1700 EDT FROM SHATAVIA WALKER TO BRIAN P. SMITH * * *     The source has been retrieved in North Carolina.  The following e-mail was received from the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services in regards to finding the lost source:    "[The common carrier] confirmed with our staff this morning that the shipment was located in Durham, NC. It had been delivered to an incorrect shipping warehouse.  [The common carrier] picked the source up from that location and got it back on route to the vendor in Massachusetts.  The RSO provided receipt confirmation from the vendor that the source had been returned.  The error was discovered by reviewing video footage and noticing it being loaded to the truck bound for Durham."    Notified R1DO (Lilliendahl), NMSS Events Notification (E-mail), and ILTAB (E-mail)    THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Category 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Category 3 sources, if not safely managed or securely protected, could cause permanent injury to a person who handled them, or were otherwise in contact with them, for some hours.  It could possibly - although it is unlikely - be fatal to be close to this amount of unshielded radioactive material for a period of days to weeks. These sources are typically used in practices such as fixed industrial gauges involving high activity sources (for example: level gauges, dredger gauges, conveyor gauges and spinning pipe gauges) and well logging.  For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|}