{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15160\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Event Desc|En No|Site Name|Licensee Name|Region No|City Name|State Cd|County Name|License No|Agreement State Ind|Docket No|Unit Ind1|Unit Ind2|Unit Ind3|Reactor Type|Nrc Notified By|Ops Officer|Notification Dt|Notification Time|Event Dt|Event Time|Time Zone|Last Updated Dt|Emergency Class|Cfr Cd1|Cfr Descr1|Cfr Cd2|Cfr Descr2|Cfr Cd3|Cfr Descr3|Cfr Cd4|Cfr Descr4|Staff Name1|Org Abbrev1|Staff Name2|Org Abbrev2|Staff Name3|Org Abbrev3|Staff Name4|Org Abbrev4|Staff Name5|Org Abbrev5|Staff Name6|Org Abbrev6|Staff Name7|Org Abbrev7|Staff Name8|Org Abbrev8|Staff Name9|Org Abbrev9|Staff Name10|Org Abbrev10|Scram Code 1|RX CRIT 1|Initial PWR 1|Initial RX Mode1|Current PWR 1|Current RX Mode 1|Scram Code 2|RX CRIT 2|Initial PWR 2|Initial RX Mode 2|Current PWR 2|Current RX Mode 2|Scram Code 3|RX CRIT 3|Initial PWR 3|Initial RX Mode 3|Current PWR 3|Current RX Mode 3|Event Text|\
\
Power Reactor|55265|Palo Verde|Arizona Nuclear Power Project|4|Wintersburg|AZ|Maricopa||Y||2|||[1] CE,[2] CE,[3] CE|Jason Hill|Jeffrey Whited|05/19/2021|8:35:00|05/19/2021|3:15:00|MST|7/2/2021 7:48:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(2)(iv)(B)|RPS Actuation - Critical|50.72(b)(3)(iv)(A)|Valid Specif Sys Actuation|50.72(b)(3)(v)(D)|Accident Mitigation|50.72(b)(3)(ii)(B)|Unanalyzed Condition|YOUNG, CALE|R4|||||||||||||||||||A/R|Y|100|Power Operation|0|Hot Standby||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/2/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AUTOMATIC REACTOR TRIP DUE TO HIGH PRESSURIZER PRESSURE    "At 0315 MST on May 19, 2021, Unit 2 reactor automatically tripped during testing of the Plant Protection System. The Reactor Protection System actuated to trip the reactor on High Pressurizer Pressure, although no plant protection setpoints were exceeded. Main Steam Isolation Signal (MSIS), Safety Injection Actuation Signal (SIAS), and Containment Isolation Actuation Signal (CIAS) were received. No injection of water into the Reactor Coolant System occurred. Auxiliary Feedwater Actuation Signals (AFAS) 1 and 2 actuated on low Steam Generator water level post trip as designed. This event is being reported as a reactor protection system and a specified system actuation in accordance with the reporting criteria of 10 CFR 50.72(b)(2)(iv)(B) and 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(iv)(A).    "Following the reactor trip, all [Control Element Assemblies] CEAs inserted fully into the core. All systems operated as expected. No emergency plan classification was required per the Emergency Plan. Safety related busses remained powered during the event from offsite power and the offsite power grid is stable. Unit 2 is stable and in Mode 3. Steam Generator heat removal is via the class 1 E powered motor driven auxiliary feedwater pump and Atmospheric Dump Valves.    "The NRC Senior Resident Inspector has been informed."    * * * UPDATE ON 5/19/21 AT 1351 EDT FROM JASON HILL TO BRIAN P. SMITH * * *    "The Unit 2 reactor tripped because of actual High Pressurizer Pressure that occurred as a result of a Main Steam Isolation Signal actuation.     "At 0337 MST, both trains of Low Pressure and High Pressure Safety Injection (LPSI and HPSI) were made inoperable when the injection valves were overridden and closed in accordance with station procedures. At 0346 MST, in accordance with station procedures, both trains of Containment Spray, LPSI, and HPSI pumps were overridden and stopped, rendering Containment Spray inoperable as well. This represents a condition that would have prevented the fulfillment of a safety function required to mitigate the consequences of an accident per 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(v)(D). Additionally, at the time of the Safety Injection Actuation Signal (0315 MST), both trains of Emergency Diesel Generators actuated as required and both 4160 VAC busses remained energized from off-site power.    "The NRC Senior Resident Inspector has been informed."    Notified R4DO (Young)     * * * UPDATE ON 7/02/21 AT 1943 EDT FROM YOLANDA GOOD TO JEFFREY WHITED * * *    "The inoperability of both trains of Low Pressure and High Pressure Safety Injection (LPSI and HPSI) and both trains of Containment Spray (CS) following the Unit 2 reactor trip has been determined to be an unanalyzed condition per 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(ii)(B). Additionally, inoperability of both trains of HPSI resulted in a reportable condition that could prevent fulfillment of its credited safety function to maintain the reactor in a safe shutdown condition per 10 CFR 50. 72(b)(3)(v)(A). The additional reporting criteria were discovered during review of the event and corresponding safety analyses.    "The NRC Senior Resident Inspector has been informed."    Notified R4DO (Werner)  |\
Agreement State|55280|MA RADIATION CONTROL PROGRAM|Thermo Scientific Portable Analytical Instruments Inc.|1|Tewksbury|MA||55-0238|Y||||||Anthony Carpenito|Jeffrey Whited|05/27/2021|22:11:00|05/27/2021|15:51:00|EDT|7/2/2021 8:57:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||BOWER, FRED|R1DO|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/2/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - LEAKING SOURCE    The following was received from the Massachusetts Radiation Control Program via email:    "At 1551 EDT on May 27, 2021, the Massachusetts Radiation Control Program received a phone call from the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) of Thermo Scientific Portable Analytical Instruments, License Number 55-0238. The RSO stated that a source was removed from the licensee's manufactured device that was sent to them for servicing. During this receipt procedure, a wipe sample taken on the device resulted in positive contamination. The Nickel-63 source was found to be leaking and the wipe test indicated a removable contamination level of 0.0728 microcurie. The limit for reporting the activity is 0.005 microcurie.    "Further information will be forthcoming as the event is under investigation."    * * * UPDATE ON MAY 28, 2021 AT 1603 EDT FROM ANTHONY CARPENITO TO BRIAN P. SMITH * * *    The following update was received from the Massachusetts Radiation Control Program [MRCP] via email:    "The licensee notified the MRCP at 1202 [EDT] on May 28, 2021 to correct and update its earlier report. The sealed source isotope of interest is Iron-55 (Fe-55), not Nickel-63 as reported earlier, and the source activity is 20 millicuries. [The] Source was contained within an X-ray fluorescence device Model XLi 969, SN 5249. The customer had shipped the device to the licensee for decommissioning rather than service/repair. The accompanying leak test result prior to shipment was negative for contamination. Wipe survey results for areas within the licensee's facility where the device had been were negative for contamination. End of update."    Notified R1DO (Bower) and NMSS Events Notification    * * * UPDATE ON JULY 2, 2021 AT 1603 EDT FROM SZYMON MUDREWICZ TO JEFFREY WHITED * * *    The following update was received from the MRCP via email:    "The only update to this event is the MA docket number as referenced in the subject above [MA Event Docket 17-4568]. There are currently no other updates to this event at the moment."    MA Event Docket: 17-4568    Notified R1DO (Lilliendahl) and NMSS Events Notification  |\
Agreement State|55284|TEXAS DEPT OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES|IRIS NDT|4|Houston|TX||L-06435|Y||||||Karen Blanchard|Kerby Scales|05/30/2021|18:43:00|05/28/2021|15:00:00|CDT|7/9/2021 8:23:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||GEPFORD, HEATHER|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|WILLIAMS, KEVIN|DIR MSST|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/9/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - POTENTIAL OVEREXPOSURE TO RADIOGRAPHER    The following was received from the Texas Department of State Health Services via email:    "On May 30, 2021, at approximately [1500] CDT one of the licensee's radiographers reported to the radiation safety officer that on May 28, 2021, he had handled a collimator while the source was in it.  The radiographer was using a SPEC 150 camera with a 22 curie Iridium-192 source.  The radiographer had taken a shot on top of a 2-inch pipe on a pipe stand.  He then set up for the next shot by taking hold of the collimator (back, shielded side) and slid it down to the side of the pipe (90 degree).  The beam was always facing the pipe.  When he walked back to the camera to crank out the source, he found he had not cranked it back in after the first shot.  The radiographer was not wearing an alarming rate meter, a pocket dosimeter, or a dosimetry badge, and he was not carrying/using a survey meter at the time of the incident.  The licensee's initial, rough calculations indicate the dose will be lower than the reporting criteria used for this report, but until they can get more information, this report is being made as an immediate report.  The radiographer was seen by a physician today and the licensee reported white blood cell counts were normal.  The licensee is investigating the event and also why the radiographer did not report the incident when it occurred. More information will be provided as it is obtained in accordance with SA-300."    Texas Incident number not assigned as of the time of the report.      * * * RETRACTION ON 7/9/21 AT 0809 EDT FROM ART TUCKER TO KERBY SCALES * * *    The following was received from the Texas Department of State Health Services (the Agency) via email:    "On May 30, 2021, the Agency was informed by the licensee that on May 30, 2021, at approximately [1500] CDT one of the licensee's radiographers reported to the radiation safety officer that on May 28, 2021, he had handled a collimator while the source was in it.  The radiographer was using a SPEC 150 camera with a 22 Curie Iridium-192 source.  The radiographer had taken a shot on top of a 2-inch pipe on a pipe stand.  He then set up for the next shot by taking hold of the collimator (back, shielded side) and slid it down to side of the pipe (90 degree).  The beam was always facing the pipe.  When he walked back to the camera to crank out the source, he found he had not cranked it back in after the first shot.  The radiographer was not wearing an alarming rate meter, a pocket dosimeter, or a dosimetry badge, and he was not carrying/using a survey meter at the time of the incident.  The licensee conducted a reenactment of the radiographer's actions on June 1, 2021.  The Agency conducted an on-line meeting with the licensee on June 16, 2021 and reviewed the video.  Using the reenactment and the National Council on Radiation Protection (NCRP) 41 table 6, it was determined that the exposure to the radiographer's fingers was 31.28 Rem (exposed for 2 seconds) and to the remainder of his hand was 7.629 Rem (exposed for 6 seconds collimator 4.25 half-layer values (HLVS)).  The whole-body dose was 124.68 milliRem.  No exposure limits were exceeded."    Texas Incident Number: 9853    Notified R4DO (Warnick), NMSS Events and DIR MSST (Williams) via email.  |\
Agreement State|55292|UTAH DIVISION OF RADIATION CONTROL|Rio Tinto Kennecott|4|South Jordan|UT||UT1800289|Y||||||Gwyn Galloway|Bethany Cecere|06/04/2021|19:03:00|06/03/2021|0:00:00|MDT|7/1/2021 5:48:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||GROOM, JEREMY|R4|ILTAB, |EMAIL|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/30/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - MISSING FIXED GAUGING DEVICE    The following information from the state of Utah was received by email:    "The Utah Division of Waste Management and Radiation Control (DWMRC) was notified by the licensee that a fixed gauge was missing on 06/04/2021 at approximately 1430 MST.     "The licensee was reconfiguring a portion of their facility and had relocated a number of gauges from one location to another location in their operations for use at the new location.  One of the fixed gauging devices, a Thermo Fisher, model 5202, serial number B3339, containing 500 milliCuries of cesium-137 (Cs-137) would not fit at the new location.  The fixed gauge was supposed to be removed from the hopper where it was located and placed in storage for future use.  For some reason, this removal did not occur.  The fixed gauge was left in place and had not been moved to a secured storage location.  The shutter on the gauge was locked in the closed position.      "Yesterday afternoon (06/03/2021), the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) was notified that the structure that the gauge had been located on had been demolished and the whereabouts of the gauge was not known.  All of the materials from the demolition of the structure are still located in the area and are on the licensee's property.  The licensee's staff began looking for the device.  At about 1000 to 1100 MST this morning (06/04/2021), the licensee indicated that they had verified which gauge was missing and that it could not be located.  The RSO began notifying all of the company personnel he is to notify when this occurs.  The RSO thought he had 24 hours to report the gauge as missing to the DWMRC instead of the immediate notification that was required and did not immediately notify the DWMRC.      "At this point, the licensee is continuing to search through the demolished parts of the structure for the gauge and will continue to do so.  The materials from the demolition are not to be relocated or removed from the licensee's property until a through search of all of the materials can be made or the device is located.  The DWMRC will conduct an on-site investigation of this issue."    UT Event Report ID No.: UT-21-0001    * * * UPDATE ON 7/1/21 AT 1744 EDT FROM CONLEY CHRISTOFFERSEN TO BETHANY CECERE * * *    The following is a synopsis of information reported by the state of Utah by email:    "The device is a density meter used in a conveyance system. The conveyance system has been recently upgraded. Several similar devices were transferred to the upgraded system. This device was not scheduled to be transferred and was to be placed in storage for evaluation upon the completion of the project. Miscommunication occurred in that this device was not removed when the other devices were transferred and was instead left in place during initial demolition activities of the conveyance system. The device remained onsite, located in a pile of the larger scrap materials pending further processing (size reduction and sorting) prior to offsite recycling. It was in this scrap pile that the device was recovered intact.    "The device was located and recovered shortly after the recovery effort began on June 10, 2021, and transported offsite for disposal on June 11, 2021."    Notified R4DO (Werner), NMSS Events Notification, and ILTAB (email).    THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf  |\
Agreement State|55309|GEORGIA RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL PGM|Hurst Boiler Company|1|Coolridge |GA||GA 918-1|Y||||||Stacy Allman|Thomas Kendzia|06/16/2021|10:14:00|06/07/2021|0:00:00|EDT|7/7/2021 5:02:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||LILLIENDAHL, JON|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|ILTAB, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/6/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - SOURCE LOST DURING SHIPPING    The following was received from the Georgia Radioactive Materials Program (Agency) via email:    "Hurst Boiler Welding Company used [a common carrier] to ship a source changer back to QSA Global. It was shipped on May 19, 2021, and officially declared lost on 6/14/21. Hurst Boiler reported the loss to [the Agency] on 6/16/21. The licensee intended to ship a source changer back to QSA global via [a common carrier] on 5/19/2021. After approximately 14 days without a confirmation of receipt. The licensee contacted [the common carrier] on 6/14/21, who confirmed the source had been lost. The Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) then contacted [the Agency] on 6/16/21. When speaking with the RSO by phone, he stated the source changer contains an Ir-192 source (Serial # 9887G Model SC-800). The source activity when shipped (5/19/21) was 8.3 Ci and as of 6/16/21 it has decayed to 6.3 Ci. The most current leak test was performed on 8/31/21. The RSO was advised to provide a written report and submit all supporting documents as soon as possible."    Georgia Incident #41    * * * UPDATE ON 7/7/21 AT 1700 EDT FROM SHATAVIA WALKER TO BRIAN P. SMITH * * *     The source has been retrieved in North Carolina.  The following e-mail was received from the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services in regards to finding the lost source:    "[The common carrier] confirmed with our staff this morning that the shipment was located in Durham, NC. It had been delivered to an incorrect shipping warehouse.  [The common carrier] picked the source up from that location and got it back on route to the vendor in Massachusetts.  The RSO provided receipt confirmation from the vendor that the source had been returned.  The error was discovered by reviewing video footage and noticing it being loaded to the truck bound for Durham."    Notified R1DO (Lilliendahl), NMSS Events Notification (E-mail), and ILTAB (E-mail)    THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Category 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Category 3 sources, if not safely managed or securely protected, could cause permanent injury to a person who handled them, or were otherwise in contact with them, for some hours.  It could possibly - although it is unlikely - be fatal to be close to this amount of unshielded radioactive material for a period of days to weeks. These sources are typically used in practices such as fixed industrial gauges involving high activity sources (for example: level gauges, dredger gauges, conveyor gauges and spinning pipe gauges) and well logging.  For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Agreement State|55324|Ohio Department of Health|Christ Hospital, Cincinnati|3|Cincinnati|OH||02120310008|Y||||||Micheal Snee|Thomas Herrity|06/24/2021|9:29:00|06/22/2021|0:00:00|EDT|6/24/2021 10:24:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||STONE, ANN MARIE|R3|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/23/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - UNDERDOSE TO PATIENT   The following was received from the state of Ohio via email:    "Event occurred on 6/22/21. The patient was scheduled for therapy with Y-90 Sir-Spheres. The prescribed dose was 4389 rem.  [However, they] administered only 3336 rem, or 76 percent (-24 percent) of the prescribed dose. During the infusion of the Sir-Sphere particles, the infusion catheter became clogged due to the high volume of particles. The catheter was removed, a new catheter placed and used for the infusion of the remaining particles. Stasis was not reached, there was not a patient event, and the estimated difference in dose to the patient exceeds 50 rem to the liver. There were no negative effect to the individual patient, no additional treatment is necessary as a result of this occurrence (administered therapy is sufficient), and no further actions are necessary to prevent recurrence. The physician notified the patient and [their] personal representative of the event, post therapy on 6/22/2021."    Ohio Item Number: OH210005    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.      |\
Non-Agreement State|55326|Curium Pharma|Curium Pharma|3|Noblesville|IN||13-35179-03|N||||||Matthew Tressner|Brian P. Smith|06/24/2021|21:56:00|06/24/2021|18:00:00|EDT|7/20/2021 3:50:00 PM|Non Emergency|30.50(a)|Protective Action Prevented|30.50(b)(1)|Unplanned Contamination|||||NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|STONE, ANN MARIE|R3DO|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: UNPLANNED CONTAMINATION TO AN INDIVIDUAL    The following synopsis was received via phone call from the licensee's Radiation Safety Officer (RSO):    At 1800 EDT on June 24, 2021 at the licensee facility, an employee left the work site unaware that he was contaminated on his skin and his clothing.  The only places the individual traveled to were his car and his home before being called back to work at 1924 EDT to investigate the contamination event.  When the individual came back to the facility, contamination was found on his hand including Sr-82, Sr-85, Rb-83, and Rb-84.  The activity was 600,000 counts or 0.18 micro curies.  Dose calculations have not been performed, however, the RSO does not believe the dose will be near any federal limits.  The work area has been decontaminated and the individual's car has been surveyed and no contamination was found.  The licensee plans to survey the individual's home as well as contact the NRC Region 3 materials inspector.  The licensee is reporting the event under both 30.50(a) and 30.50(b)(1) as a precaution as more data is being collected.       * * * Update from Matthew Trusner to Donald Norwood at 1914 EDT on 6/25/2021 * * *    The following information was received via E-mail:    "On June 24, 2021, at approximately 1800 EDT, Curium-Noblesville RSO became aware of a radioactive spill in a restricted (production) area. The spill occurred behind the production hot cells. The affected area is designated as a triple shoe cover area and cordoned to limit access.     "The RSO directed a Radiation Safety Technician to respond to and initiate the investigation and data collection. The Radiation Safety Technician performed contamination surveys and found a maximum count rate of 800,000 cpm. The Radiation Safety Technician subsequently remediated the spill to 70,000 cpm (below the administrative level of 100,000 cpm) within minutes of completing the survey.     "The spill initiated when a Chemist tried to manually un-crimp a vial containing approximately 695 mCi of Sr-82 and 703 mCi of Sr-85. As the the Chemist tried to un-crimp the vial, the glass below the crimp broke leading to a few drops to fall on the concrete  floor behind the hot cells. During the initial investigation surveys, the RSO discovered that the production batch record was contaminated. This prompted the RSO to find the Chemist to ensure he was free of contamination. The RSO discovered that the Chemist had already left the site.     "The RSO immediately contacted the Director of Health Physics for assistance. They made the decision to bring the Chemist onsite for a survey. The RSO discovered that the Chemist's work clothes presented spots reading approximately 600,000 cpm on contact with the pants and 200,000 with the shirt. The RSO also found contamination on the right hand reading approximately 34,000 cpm. Because the Chemist had left the site, the RSO surveyed the Chemist's car and did not identify contamination above background levels. The RSO communicated the findings to the Director of Health Physics and initiated the decontamination activities for the Chemist.     "Prior to decontaminating the Chemist's hand, the RSO obtained a gamma spectrum to identify the radioactive contaminants. He found a mixture of Sr-82, Sr-85, Rb-83 and Rb-84. The Director of Health Physics reviewed the notification requirements prescribed in Part 20 and Part 30 and escalated the event to Curium management and legal teams. Curium made the decision to proactively report the event to the NRC Operations Center under 10 CFR 30.50(a) given that the notification was required within 4 hours of discovery and Curium had not acquired enough data to verify if any regulatory limit was exceeded or not. After the notification, the RSO stopped the decontamination activities after no further contamination was being removed. The RSO measured a residual contamination of 4,200 cpm on the hand. He then followed the Chemist to his home and performed a contamination survey of the areas in which the Chemist indicated that he had been present after leaving the work site that day.  The RSO found no contamination above background levels.     "The Director of Health Physics performed an initial dose estimate on June 25, 2021. The RSO used Rb-84 as the most restrictive nuclide that yielded the highest dose in the mixture. The estimates indicated that the Chemist received approximately 1,203 mrem to the maximally exposed shallow dose equivalent (extremity), 636 mrem shallow dose equivalent (whole body) and 13 mrem deep dose equivalent. The RSO performed 24-hour urinalysis and did not find the presence of the radionuclides. All license material was accounted for.     "Curium personnel discussed the incident with NRC Region-III on June 25, 2021. Curium is in the process of completing formal root cause analysis."    Notified R3DO (Stone) and the NMSS Events Notification E-mail group.     * * * RETRACTION ON 07/20/21 AT 1506 EDT FROM MATTHEW TRUSNER TO SOLOMON SAHLE * * *     The following retraction is a summary received from the licensee via phone:    As part of an internal investigation, the licensee determined that neither the employee nor any member of the public received any exposure exceeding regulatory limits.    The licensee will notify the NRC Region 3.    Notified R3DO (Pelke) and NMSS Events Notification via email.  |\
Agreement State|55327|TEXAS DEPT OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES|Oceaneering International, Inc.|4|Houston|TX||L 06845|Y||||||Arthur Tucker|Donald Norwood|06/25/2021|13:47:00|06/16/2021|0:00:00|CDT|6/25/2021 1:53:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||KELLAR, RAY|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/23/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - RADIOGRAPHY SOURCE DISCONNECT    The following information was received via E-mail:    "On June 25, 2021, the Agency [Texas Department of State Health Services] was notified by the licensee's Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) that while conducting radiography in their shooting bay, they experienced a source disconnect. The disconnect involved a QSA 880D exposure device containing a 60 curie iridium-192 source.     "The RSO stated the radiographer had completed an exposure and was entering the bay to exchange the film. As they passed the entrance beam the radiation alarm went off. The radiographer exited the area. The licensee was unable to retract the source. They contacted a service company who came to the licensee's location.     "It was determined that the ball on the drive cable had broken free of the drive cable. The service company was able to retract the source into the exposure device. No overexposures occurred due to this event. Additional information will be provided as it is received in accordance with SA-300."    Texas Incident Number:  I-9860.|\
Agreement State|55329|WISCONSIN RADIATION PROTECTION|Aurora Healthcare Southern Lakes, Inc.|3|Oconomowoc|WI||133-2000-01|Y||||||Joe Ross|Brian P. Smith|06/25/2021|18:15:00|06/25/2021|11:00:00|CDT|6/25/2021 6:18:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||STONE, ANN MARIE|R3|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/23/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - UNDERDOSE TO PATIENT    The following report was received from the Wisconsin Radiation Protection Section [the State]:    "On June 25, 2021, the licensee reported to the State a misadministration of Y-90 Theraspheres on the morning of the same day. The prescribed dose was 126 Gy to the right lobe of the liver, corresponding to 2.31 GBq. After the administration was complete, the licensee surveyed the residual material and noticed that an unusually high amount of material was still present in the administration setup. Initial calculations indicate that approximately 1.572 GBq of material was delivered to the patient. This corresponds to 68.8 percent of the prescribed dose resulting in a dose to the right lobe of the liver that differed from the prescribed dose by 39.2 Gy. The technologist notified the Authorized User immediately and the Authorized User then notified the patient. No unusual circumstances or events were noted during the administration, and there are no suspected spills or outside exposures resulting from this event. The State will continue to follow up on the event."    Wisconsin Event Report: WI210005    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.    |\
Agreement State|55330|VIRGINIA RAD MATERIALS PROGRAM|Geotechnical Inc.|1|Bristol|VA||107-655-1|Y||||||Asfaw Fenta|Brian P. Smith|06/30/2021|9:24:00|06/29/2021|10:39:00|EDT|6/30/2021 9:29:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||LILLIENDAHL, JON|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/30/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - DAMAGED MOISTURE DENSITY GAUGE    The following event description was received via e-mail from the Virginia Radioactive Materials Program (VRMP):    "On June 29, 2021, at 1039 EDT, a representative of the VRMP received a report from a licensee's Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) via telephone call that a portable nuclear moisture/density gauge was damaged when hit by a car at a jobsite. The report indicated that a Troxler density gauge (Model 4640-B, containing 9 milliCuries of Cesium-137) was being used for asphalt testing when a car drove into the closed lane and hit the gauge. During the accident, the gauge housing was damaged but the source appeared to remain intact within the housing. The licensee's survey of the gauge yielded readings of 0.05 mR/hr at about 3-4 feet distance from the gauge. The gauge was taken to the licensee's office in its transport container and then was sent for further evaluation and leak testing on the morning of June 30, 2021. The VRMP is working with the licensee to obtain additional information. This report will be updated once the licensee's investigation is complete and the information is received. According to the RSO, no public exposure occurred."    Virginia Event Report Number: VA21003 |\
Agreement State|55331|FLORIDA BUREAU OF RADIATION CONTROL|Faulker Engineering Services, Inc.|1|Tampa|FL||3696-1|Y||||||Matthew Senison|Brian P. Smith|06/30/2021|10:42:00|06/30/2021|10:10:00|EDT|6/30/2021 10:45:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||LILLIENDAHL, JON|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/30/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - DAMAGED SOIL MOISTURE DENSITY GAUGE    The following event report was received via e-mail from the Florida Bureau of Radiation Control (BRC):    "The vice president (VP) of the licensee called the BRC at 1015 EDT to report that a SMDG [(small moisture density gauge)] was hit or run over by a front end loader at 1010 EDT this morning. The location is a construction site north of the intersection of Connorton Blvd. and US-41 Land O' Lakes, FL 34637. The VP intends to evaluate SMDG, then send it to Troxler. The VP will provide a written report to the BRC."    Florida Incident Number: FL21-087  |\
Agreement State|55332|TEXAS DEPT OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES|Project Management Associates, PLLC|4|Southlake|TX||L-06825|Y||||||Matthew Kennington|Kerby Scales|06/30/2021|12:26:00|06/30/2021|5:30:00|CDT|6/30/2021 12:57:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||WERNER, GREG|R4|ILTAB, |EMAIL|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|CNSNS (MEXICO)|EMAIL|||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/30/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - STOLEN MOISTURE DENSITY GAUGE    The following report was received from the Texas Department of State Health Services (the Agency) via email:    "On June 30, 2021, the Agency was notified by the licensee's radiation safety officer (RSO) that a Troxler model 3440P was stolen from a truck parked overnight at a technician's home.  The gauge contains a 40 milliCurie americium - 241 source and an 8 milliCurie cesium - 137 source.  The technician had taken the gauge home on June 29, 2021.  The gauge was inside a locked transport container that was located inside a locked metal container which was chained with two independent chains and locked to the back of the truck.  The chains were cut and the metal container was stolen.  The technician went to their truck at 0530 [CDT] hours on June 30, 2021, and discovered the theft.  The technician spoke with neighbors that told him their dogs were barking at around 0230 [CDT] hours, and he suspects this may have been when the gauge was stolen.  The RSO stated the operating arm was locked in the shielded position and that local law enforcement [Fort Worth Police] was notified."    Texas Incident Number:  9862      THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Agreement State|55333|TEXAS DEPT OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES|Superior Silica Sands LLC|4|San Antonio|TX||G 02474|Y||||||Karen Blanchard|Bethany Cecere|06/30/2021|17:56:00|06/30/2021|0:00:00|CDT|6/30/2021 5:57:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||WERNER, GREG|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|ILTAB, |EMAIL|CNSNS (MEXICO), -|EMAIL|||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/30/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - STOLEN FIXED NUCLEAR GAUGE    The following report was received from the Texas Department of State Health Services (the Agency) via email:    "On June 30, 2021, the Agency was notified by one of its General License Acknowledgement holders that it had determined that a Vega model SHLD1 nuclear gauge, containing 50 milliCuries of cesium-137, was missing and suspected stolen. The gauge had been mounted at a facility [in Kosse, TX]  that was closed in 2019. The gauge is thought to have been stolen at some point after the facility closed."    Texas Incident Number:  9863    THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Agreement State|55334|CALIFORNIA RADIATION CONTROL PRGM|John Muir Medical Center|4|Concord|CA||0729-07|Y||||||K. Arunika Hewadikaram|Bethany Cecere|07/01/2021|20:17:00|07/01/2021|0:00:00|PDT|7/1/2021 8:20:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||WERNER, GREG|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 7/30/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - PATIENT UNDER DOSE    The following was submitted by the California Department of Public Health - Radiologic Health Branch (RHB) by email:    "On 07/01/2021, licensee contacted RHB to report a medical event associated with Ytrrium-90 TheraSpheres. On the written directive, Authorized User's (AU) desired dose to the target volume was 800 Gy.  Based on the calculations, radiation dose delivered was 400.2 Gy.    "During the procedure, patient was infused with 1.067 Gbq of Y-90.  Upon completion of the infusion, based on residual exposure readings, it was determined that an estimated dose of 0.522 Gbq was delivered to the patient, 50% of the written directive.  Given the Y-90 supply vial was empty, based on the 0.00 mR/hr reading on the adjacent dosimeter, it has been speculated that Y-90 was held up in the micro-catheter.  AU suspects this high residual waste reading was due to a slower infusion of the treatment dose and flushing fluid; this will be determined at a later date when the yttrium-90 waste material has decayed and can be safely broken down with individual components measured.  The referring physician (AU), informed the patient of the event.    "RHB will be following up on the medical event."    CA 5010 Number: 070121    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.    |\
Non-Agreement State|55335|Empire Mine|Empire Mine|3|Ishpeming|MI||21-03076-01|N||||||Laurence Gray|Jeffrey Whited|07/02/2021|12:29:00|06/17/2021|9:03:00|EDT|7/2/2021 12:38:00 PM|Non Emergency|20.2201(a)(1)(ii)|Lost/Stolen Lnm>10x|||||||KUNOWSKI, MICHAEL|R3|ILTAB, |EMAIL|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|CNSC (CANADA), -   (EMAIL)|EMAIL|||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/2/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: REPORT OF LOST MATERIAL    The following is a summary of a phone call with the licensee:    During a recent NRC inspection, the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) and the NRC inspector determined that 2 Exit Signs (H-3; 0.352 Bq each) were missing and could not be located. The RSO has been searching since the inspection and has yet to locate the signs. The RSO noted that the exit signs were ordered in 2009 but was unable to find any removal work orders and is unaware of any effort to dispose of the signs. The RSO is unsure how long the signs have been missing. The licensee notified the NRC Region III Office.     THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Fuel Cycle Facility|55336|Bwx Technologies|Bwx Technologies|2|Lynchburg|VA|Campbell|SNM-42|N|07000027||||Uranium Fuel Fabrication|Stephen Subosits|Jeffrey Whited|07/02/2021|13:51:00|06/30/2021|15:30:00|EDT|7/2/2021 3:07:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Other Unspec Reqmnt|||||||MILLER, MARK|R2DO|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|FUELS GROUP, -|EMAIL|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/2/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: SAMPLE DISCOVERED MISSING    The following was received from the licensee via email:    "A metallurgy laboratory (Met Lab) sample was determined to be missing from its prescribed location in the Physical Test Lab on June 30, 2021 at approximately 1330 EDT. A search for the item was immediately initiated per requirements. As of 1300 EDT on July 2, 2021, the item has not been located and as a result, formal notification of a missing item is being made to the NRC per Chapter 3 of BWXT NOG-L's Fundamental Nuclear Material Control Plan (FNMCP). 10 CFR 74.51 requirements do not apply since the item does not contain Strategic Special Nuclear Material (SSNM). The search for the item has been concluded and an investigation into the disposition has been initiated.  The missing item was categorized as low enriched uranium and contained 0.03 grams of U-235.    "The Resident Inspector will be notified."|\
Agreement State|55337|PA BUREAU OF RADIATION PROTECTION|University of Pennsylvania|1|Philadelphia|PA||PA-0131|Y||||||John S. Chippo |Lloyd Desotell|07/03/2021|11:11:00|07/02/2021|0:00:00|EDT|7/3/2021 11:18:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||LILLIENDAHL, JON|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/3/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text:   AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - PATIENT UNDER DOSE    The following was received via an email from the state of Pennsylvania:    "The Department [PA Bureau of Radiation Protection] received notification from a licensee on July 2, 2021 of a medical event involving a Y-90 TheraSphere. The licensee noted 71 percent of the prescribed dose of 30.8 millicuries was administered to the patient. A mechanical blockage occurred in the delivery system preventing spheres from exiting the administration vial. All material was contained in the delivery system, lines, and patient. Area monitoring confirmed that no leak occurred and no contamination of the work area. Nuclear Medicine imaging of the waste confirmed activity concentrated within the vial. The physician and patient have been notified. No adverse effects to the patient are anticipated. The Department is currently in contact with the licensee and will update this event as soon as more information is provided."    Pennsylvania Event Report ID No: PA210006    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.    |\
Power Reactor|55338|South Texas|Stp Nuclear Operating Company|4|Wadsworth|TX|Matagorda||Y|05000498|1|2||[1] W-4-LP,[2] W-4-LP|Billy Herzog|Jeffrey Whited|07/03/2021|17:44:00|07/03/2021|13:30:00|CDT|7/3/2021 5:52:00 PM|Non Emergency|26.719|Fitness For Duty|||||||WERNER, GREG|R4|FFD GROUP, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation|N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/3/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DISCOVERED WITHIN THE PROTECTED AREA     "On July 03, 2021, at approximately 1011 CDT, a Security Force Supervisor at South Texas Project Electric Generating Station (STPEGS) was informed by a security officer that they had located what appeared to be drug paraphernalia inside the Protected Area. At 1033 CDT Local Law Enforcement was contacted and responded to STPEGS. At 1130 CDT the Matagorda County Sheriff's office took the item into evidence for testing to determine if there was any presence of a controlled substance. At 1311 CDT, the Matagorda County Sheriff's office notified STP Nuclear Operating Company (STPNOC) that the item tested positive for the presence of a controlled substance. At 1330 CDT the Unit 1 Shift Manager was notified. This event is being reported in accordance with 10 CFR 26.719(b)(1) for discovery or presence of illegal drugs within the protected area. STPNOC is continuing to investigate this incident.    "The Resident Inspector has been notified."|\
Power Reactor|55339|Catawba|Duke Energy Nuclear Llc|2|York|SC|York||Y|05000413|1|2||[1] W-4-LP,[2] W-4-LP|Walter Hunnicutt|Jeffrey Whited|07/04/2021|15:59:00|07/04/2021|9:11:00|EDT|7/4/2021 4:03:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(3)(xiii)|Loss Comm/Asmt/Response|||||||MILLER, MARK|R2|||||||||||||||||||N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation|N|Y|99|Power Operation|99|Power Operation||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/4/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: LOSS OF SEISMIC MONITORING FOR EMERGENCY PLAN ASSESSMENT    "At 0911 EDT on July 4, 2021, a failure occurred on 2 out of 3 of the required seismic monitoring instruments that feed the Operational Basis Earthquake (OBE) annunciator. The failure would prevent an OBE EXCEEDED alarm on the Seismic Monitoring Panel in the Control Room. This results in a major loss of emergency assessment capability. Corrective actions are being pursued to restore the seismic monitoring instruments. Compensatory measures are in place to assure adequate monitoring capability.    "This is an eight-hour, non-emergency notification for a loss of Emergency Assessment Capability. This event is reportable in accordance with 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(xiii) because the unplanned failure of the required seismic instruments affects the ability to assess a seismic event greater than the OBE. There was no impact on the health and safety of the public or plant personnel.     "The NRC Resident Inspector has been notified."|\
Agreement State|55340|CALIFORNIA RADIATION CONTROL PRGM|River City Geoprofessionals, Inc. dba Wallace-Kuhl & Assoc|4|Sacramento|CA||4385-57|Y||||||K. Arunika Hewadikaram|Bethany Cecere|07/06/2021|14:44:00|07/03/2021|0:00:00|PDT|7/6/2021 2:44:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||WARNICK, GREG|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|ILTAB, |EMAIL|CNSNS (MEXICO), -|EMAIL|||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/6/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - STOLEN MOISTURE DENSITY GAUGE    The following was received from the California Department of Public Health - Radiologic Health Branch (RHB):    "On 7/5/21, licensee contacted California Office of Emergency Services (Cal OES) to report a stolen moisture density gauge.  The gauge stolen is a CPN Model MC-1, S/N MD 80304167 containing 10 mCi of Cs-137 and 50 mCi of Am-241.  Gauge user's vehicle parked in Sacramento, CA, was broken into and the gauge that was stored inside a secured metal box bolted to the bed of the truck was stolen on 7/3/21. Licensee had immediately notified Sacramento County Sheriff's Department of the theft (Report # 21-2016910).    "RHB will be following up on this investigation."    CA 5010 Number: 070521      THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Agreement State|55341|TEXAS DEPT OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES|CMT Associates LLC|4|Denton|TX||L-06945|Y||||||Art Tucker|Kerby Scales|07/07/2021|9:50:00|07/05/2021|0:00:00|CDT|7/7/2021 10:22:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||WARNICK, GREG|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/6/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - STOLEN / RECOVERED DENSITY GAUGE    The following report was received from the Texas Department of State Health Services (the Agency) via email:    "On July 6, 2021, the Agency was contacted by the licensee's radiation safety officer (RSO).  The RSO stated that a [former] employee had taken a Troxler moisture density gauge and did not return it.  The gauge contains a 40 milliCurie americium - 241 source and an 8 milliCurie cesium - 137 source.  The gauge was taken after the employee's employment had been terminated.  The Agency attempted to contact the individual by phone twice, but they did not answer and they did not have voice mail to leave a message. At 2237 [CDT] on July 6, 2021, the Agency was notified by the RSO that the gauge had been recovered.  The Agency has requested additional information from the licensee.  At this time there is no reason to believe any individual would have been exposed.  The report is made for informational purposes.  Additional information will be provided as it is received in accordance with SA-300."    Texas Incident Number:  9865      THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Non-Agreement State|55344|Mistras Group|Mistras Group|3|Heath|OH||12-16559-02|Y||||||Matthew Kim|Brian P. Smith|07/08/2021|15:00:00|07/07/2021|15:00:00|MDT|7/8/2021 3:12:00 PM|Non Emergency|30.50(b)(2)|Safety Equipment Failure|||||||HANNA, JOHN|R3|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/6/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: SOURCE RETRIEVAL    The following event synopsis was received by the licensee via phone call:    The Headquarters Operations Officer (HOO) was notified by the licensee that during operations a source was disconnected from its drive cable and required retrieval [at a jobsite in Cheyenne, WY]. The licensee established a 2 mRem perimeter as well as other safety precautions in preparation for retrieval.  The Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) was able to arrive and successfully retrieve the source.  A formal report will be subsequently issued for the event.    Wyoming is still considered a non-agreement state regarding material events with the only exception being uranium recovery events.  |\
Power Reactor|55345|Limerick|Exelon Nuclear Co.|1|Philadelphia|PA|Montgomery||N||2|||[1] GE-4,[2] GE-4|Richard Wagner|Brian P. Smith|07/08/2021|20:07:00|05/13/2021|7:00:00|EDT|7/8/2021 8:37:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.73(a)(1)|Invalid Specif System Actuation|||||||LILLIENDAHL, JON|R1|||||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Hot Shutdown|100|Power Operation||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/6/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: INVALID ACTUATION OF CONTAINMENT ISOLATION SIGNAL    "This 60-Day telephone notification is being made per the reporting requirements specified in 10 CFR 50.73(a)(2)(iv)(A) to describe an invalid actuation of containment isolation signal affecting more than one system. On May 13, 2021, during the restoration of the Unit 2 Refuel Floor High Radiation Isolation Logic an invalid isolation signal was received. The condition requiring an isolation signal was verified not to be present prior to restoring the logic; however, it was not recognized that a previous isolation signal was latched in and had not been reset. When the isolation logic was restored, the Primary Containment Isolation System (PCIS) isolated on the invalid signal. The systems successfully completed the isolation per the plant design and plant configuration.      "The following systems actuated due to the Unit 2 PCIS Group 6C Isolation:  - Isolation of Containment Hydrogen and Oxygen Sampling Valves,  - Start of the 2A Reactor Enclosure Recirculation System,  - Trip of the Units 1 and 2 Refuel Floor HVAC,  - Start of the A and B Trains of Standby Gas Treatment Systems."    The NRC Resident Inspector was notified.|\
Power Reactor|55346|Davis Besse|Firstenergy Nuclear Operating Company|3|Oak Harbor|OH|Ottawa||Y|05000346|1|||[1] B&W-R-LP|Nicholas Buehler|Kerby Scales|07/09/2021|0:44:00|07/08/2021|21:54:00|EDT|7/9/2021 1:02:00 AM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(2)(iv)(B)|RPS Actuation - Critical|50.72(b)(3)(iv)(A)|Valid Specif Sys Actuation|50.72(b)(2)(iv)(A)|Eccs Injection|||KUNOWSKI, MICHAEL|R3|||||||||||||||||||A/R|N|100|Power Operation|0|Hot Standby||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/6/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AUTOMATIC REACTOR TRIP DUE TO MAIN TURBINE TRIP    "At 2154 EDT on 7/8/2021, with the Unit in Mode 1 at 100% power, the reactor automatically tripped due to trip of the main turbine, caused by failure of a non-safety related breaker during functional testing.  Following the reactor trip the Steam Feed Rupture Control System automatically initiated on low Steam Generator 1 level, actuating both turbine-driven Auxiliary Feedwater Pumps.  The operators subsequently started the high pressure injection pumps manually per procedure in response to overcooling indications.    "Operations responded and stabilized the plant.  Decay heat was initially being removed via the Main Condenser.  During post-trip response actions, while attempting to shut down the Auxiliary Feedwater Pumps, a low pressure condition was experienced in Steam Generator 2, resulting in isolation of the Main Condenser and steam being discharged through the Atmospheric Vent Valves for decay heat removal.  There is no known primary to secondary leakage.    "Due to the Reactor Protection System actuation while critical, this event is being reported as a four-hour, non-emergency notification per 10 CFR 50.72(b)(2)(iv)(B).  This event is also being reported in accordance with 10 CFR 50.72(b)(2)(iv)(A) as a four-hour, non-emergency notification of emergency core cooling system (ECCS) discharge into the reactor coolant system, and in accordance with 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(iv)(A) as an eight-hour, non-emergency notification of an event that results in a valid actuation of the Auxiliary Feedwater System.    "There was no impact on the health and safety of the public or plant personnel. The NRC Resident Inspector has been notified."  |\
Part 21|55347|ENGINE SYSTEMS, INC|ENGINE SYSTEMS, INC|1|Rocky Mt.|NC|||Y||||||Dan Roberts|Brian P. Smith|07/09/2021|15:23:00|05/11/2021|12:00:00|EDT|7/9/2021 3:33:00 PM|Non Emergency|21.21(d)(3)(i)|Defects And Noncompliance|||||||MILLER, MARK|R2DO|PART 21/50.55 REACTORS, -|EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/9/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: PART 21 INITIAL REPORT - DEVIATION IDENTIFIED LOOSE ZINC ANODES INSTALLED IN HEAT EXCHANGERS FOR DIESEL GENERATORS    The following is a summary of the defect described in an initial report received from the vendor via facsimile:    The vendor notified the NRC of a defect involving two instances of loose or dislodged zinc anodes (P/N 1335BEM2P) supplied by the vendor.  The anodes are installed in the cooling water enter and exit and return channels of the jacket water heat exchanger of the emergency diesel generator.  Each heat exchanger contains eight zinc anode assemblies that consist of a zinc rod threaded into a steel pipe plug. The zinc acts as a sacrificial anode to protect the pressure boundary metals from degradation due to galvanic corrosion. In the case of a loose or dislodged zinc anode, the zinc rod may become foreign material that remains trapped in the vessel, potentially impacting and damaging the tube ends where they project from the tube sheet. Alternatively, an anode located in the exit channel may by carried away from the heat exchanger and potentially damage downstream components.    The corrective action being recommended are as follows:    "It is recommended to perform an inspection to verify tightness at the zinc rod to pipe plug interface. The rod should be threaded into the pipe plug snug tight and, if required, may be tightened to a maximum of 15 ft-lbs. If desired, the zinc rod may be removed and eliminated from the assembly leaving only the steel pipe plug. Inclusion of the zinc anode is not required for the EDG heat exchanger application at TVA-Browns Ferry."    This component was supplied to the Browns Ferry Nuclear Power Plant.    Point of contact: Dan Roberts  Quality Manager  Engine Systems Inc.  175 Freight Rd.  Rocky Mount, NC 27804  (252) 977-2720|\
Agreement State|55348|ALABAMA RADIATION CONTROL|International Paper Company|1|Pine Hill|AL||222|Y||||||Cason Coan|Ossy Font|07/09/2021|16:15:00|07/09/2021|10:00:00|CDT|7/9/2021 4:15:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||LILLIENDAHL, JON|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/9/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - SHUTTER STUCK OPEN    The following was received from the Alabama Department of Public Health (the agency) via email:    "An agency representative received a call about 1400 CDT from the RSO (Radiation Safety Officer) of International Paper Company, license no. 222, in Pine Hill, Alabama. The RSO stated that a fixed gauge was discovered with its shutter stuck open about 1000 CDT on 7/9/2021. The RSO stated that the gauge is located on functioning process equipment; there are no health and safety issues. The RSO stated that the gauge will have shielding added, be removed, and placed in storage on the plant site, on Monday, 7/12/2021.    "The gauge is an Ohmart SH-L1-0 s/n M6846 with a cesium-137 source, 80 mCi on 8/1992."     Alabama Event 21-22|\
Fuel Cycle Facility|55349|Global Nuclear Fuel - Americas|Global Nuclear Fuel - Americas|2|Wilmington|NC|New Hanover|SNM-1097|Y|07001113||||Uranium Fuel Fabrication|Phillip Ollis|Brian P. Smith|07/10/2021|14:58:00|07/09/2021|17:30:00|EDT|7/10/2021 3:04:00 PM|Non Emergency|PART 70 APP A (c)|Offsite Notification/News Rel|||||||NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION|EMAIL|MILLER, MARK|R2DO|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/10/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM IMPAIRED    "At approximately 1730 (EDT) on July 9, 2021, the New Hanover County Deputy Fire Marshall was notified per State code requirements that the fire suppression system encompassing the Fuel Manufacturing Operation (FMO) was impaired. The backup diesel fire pump experienced a cooling system failure. As a result, the diesel fire pump was placed in the manual 'Off' position. The diesel fire pump could still be operated manually in an emergency for a short time. The electric fire pump remains fully operational and available to perform its safety function. Because the New Hanover County Deputy Fire Marshall was notified, a concurrent notification to the NRC Operations Center is being made per 10 CFR 70, Appendix A(c)."    From the discussion between the licensee and the Headquarters Operations Officer, the vendor plans to be onsite Monday July 12, 2021 to conduct repairs.|\
Agreement State|55350|GEORGIA RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL PGM|Georgia Pacific Cedar Springs, LLC|1|Cedar Springs |GA||GA 269-1 |Y||||||Sheree Butler |Thomas Herrity|07/12/2021|6:45:00|06/17/2021|0:00:00|EDT|7/14/2021 11:42:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||JANDA, DONNA|R1DO|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/13/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - STUCK SHUTTER   The following was received from the Georgia Radioactive Material Program (the department) via email:     "The Safety Leader of Georgia-Pacific LLC sent an email on 6/18/21 stating they discovered a stuck shutter [on a Kay-Ray model 7064P instrument, (5000 mCi of Cs-137) while conducting pre-operational tests] at the end of an outage on 6/17/21. They contacted a contractor who was able to restore it properly.    "The department spoke with the Safety Leader and the RSO [(Radiation Safety Officer)] on June 28, 2021 concerning the stuck shutter that was reported on June 18, 2021. The shutter was unable to close due to a broken pin in the handle. This occurred 0600 EDT on June 17, 2021. No personnel were exposed during this occurrence. BBP [Sales, LLC] was contacted to fix the broken shutter. A BBP [certified technician] arrived around 1400 EDT that same day and was able to replace the broken pin and close the shutter. This job was completed about 1700 EDT. The BPP [certified technician] used his Geiger counter to check the area and a leak test was performed which showed no leakage."    Georgia Incident number: 42      * * * UPDATE ON 07/14/21 AT 0925 EDT FROM SHEREE BUTLER TO OSSY FONT * * *    The following update was received from the department via email:    "An inspection was completed by the department on 7/8/21. They observed the gauge in the closed position and were able to take readings with the Rad Eye survey meter of the area. Readings were 700 cpms. The department is requesting to close the report."    Notified R1DO (Cahill) and NMSS Events Notification via email.  |\
Agreement State|55351|CALIFORNIA RADIATION CONTROL PRGM|Permanente Medical Group, Inc.|4|San Francisco |CA||0269-38|Y||||||K. Arunika Hewadikaram|Joanna Bridge|07/12/2021|18:13:00|07/09/2021|0:00:00|PDT|7/12/2021 6:22:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||TAYLOR, NICK|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/12/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - MEDICAL UNDERDOSE     The following was received from the state of California via e-mail:    "On Monday, July 12, 2021, [Radiation Health Branch] (RHB) Licensing Unit forwarded a July 9, 2021 email from [Radiation Safety Officer] (RSO) [redacted] (Permanente Medical Group, RML # 0269) stating that a patient received only half of the intended dosage for a Y-90 procedure of the liver.    "RHB contacted the RSO [redacted] for additional information on July 12, 2021.  The RSO [redacted] emailed a statement from the Authorized User (AU), Interventional Radiologist, [redacted], stating that a Therasphere procedure was performed on Friday, July 9, 2021 that called for a prescribed dosage of 2.876 GBq of Y-90 Theraspheres.  Prior to administration of the Y-90, the catheter was flushed with saline.  AU reported that a slight resistance was felt, but all of the flush went through the catheter.  He attributed the resistance to the sharp turns of the catheter in the branch vessel.  The administration of 2.876 GBq Y-90 Therasphere was started.  Upon administration of the Y-90 Theraspheres, the resistance became appreciated.  Administration  of the Y-90 Theraspheres was stopped and the catheter was withdrawn.  Subsequent Geiger counter examination of the removed catheter indicated greater than normal activity remained.      "AU later confirmed that of the 2.876 GBq prescribed dosage, only 47.6 percent was delivered. 1.34 GBq Y-90 went to the liver and 0.027 GBq went to the lung.  The resulting dose was 162.8 Gy to the liver and 1.37 Gy to the lungs.       "A written report will be provided to RHB within two weeks.    "CA Incident No.: 070921"    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.    |\
Agreement State|55352|TEXAS DEPT OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES|Allied Alloys LP|4|Houston|TX||G02205|Y||||||Karen Blanchard|Joanna Bridge|07/14/2021|13:50:00|07/14/2021|0:00:00|CDT|7/14/2021 2:09:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||TAYLOR, NICK|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|ILTAB, |EMAIL|CNSNS (MEXICO), -|FAX|||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/13/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - MISSING DEVICE    The following was received from the Texas Department of State Health Services [the Agency] via e-mail:    "On July 14, 2021, the licensee notified the Agency that in the process of terminating their license for radioactive materials, the Agency discovered that its records indicated the licensee had at one time a Thermo Niton XL3p-800 device, containing 30 millicuries of americium- 241, which was not on the licensee's current inventory of devices and they learned it had not been on their inventory for years. The licensee stated to the best of their knowledge the analyzer was loaned to a former associated company several years ago and this company was then sold or dissolved. It appears the analyzer was not returned to the licensee. The individuals who were, or may have been involved, are no longer employed by the licensee so further information is not available at this time. An investigation is ongoing. More information will be provided as it is obtained in accordance with SA-300.    "Texas Incident No.: I-9868"    THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Hospital|55353|Richard L. Roudebush VA Med Center|US Department of Veteran Affairs|3|Indianapolis|IN||03-23853-01VA |Y||||||Katherine Boyd|Jeffrey Whited|07/14/2021|16:03:00|07/14/2021|10:45:00|EDT|7/14/2021 4:55:00 PM|Non Emergency|35.3045(a)(1)|Dose <> Prescribed Dosage|||||||KOZAK, LAURA|R3|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/13/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: MEDICAL EVENT - UNDER DOSE    The following was received from the licensee via email:    "Richard L. Roudebush VA Medical Center, Indianapolis, Indiana, which holds Permit Number 13-00694-03 under the VA master materials license, reported discovery of a medical event to NHPP [VA National Health Physics Program] at approximately 1045 EDT, July 14, 2021. A Y-90 microsphere therapy administration for liver cancer was performed on July 14, 2021. The dosage was intended for two segments of the left lobe of the liver. Post implant surveys of the administration set found an elevated amount of Y-90 present. Measurements and calculations indicated the patient had received about 63 percent of the prescribed activity. The patient has been notified. There is no expectation at this time of harm to the patient.    "NHPP will follow up with a written report in accordance with NRC requirements in 10 CFR 35.3045. NHPP has notified our NRC Region III Project Manager, Bryan Parker."    This event is reportable pursuant to 10 CFR 35.3045.     A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.  |\
Agreement State|55354|OHIO BUREAU OF RADIATION PROTECTION|Genesis Hospital|3|Zanesville|OH||02120610006|Y||||||Michael J Rubadue|Ossy Font|07/15/2021|10:11:00|07/14/2021|0:00:00|EDT|7/15/2021 10:57:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||KOZAK, LAURA|R3|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|RIVERA-CAPELLA, GRETCHEN|NMSS DAY|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/13/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - DOSE ADMINISTERED VARIED BY MORE THAN 25 PERCENT    The following was received from the Ohio Department of Health via email:    "A patient whose thyroid had been removed was to receive treatment for the remaining nodules. The WD [(written directive)] prescribed 30 mCi I-131 NaI. However the licensee ordered and administered 100 mCi. The expected whole body dose is 26.64 rem and dose to the bladder wall is 225.7 rad."    Item Number: OH210006    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.|\
Agreement State|55355|TEXAS DEPT OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES|Valero Refining-Texas LP|4|Corpus Christi|TX||L 03360|Y||||||Randall Alex Redd|Ossy Font|07/15/2021|10:42:00|07/13/2021|0:00:00|CDT|7/15/2021 11:32:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||TAYLOR, NICK|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/13/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - STUCK SHUTTER    The following was received from the Texas Department of State Health Services via email:    "On July 13, 2021, the licensee discovered a stuck shutter in the open position during a 6 month shutter test. This is the normal operating position and there is not expected to be any additional dose outside of normal operations to workers or public."  "The device was a Vega SH-F2B density/level gauge (serial number 3578CR), with a 200 mCi CS-137 source (serial number 3578CR)."  Texas incident number: I-9869|\
Non-Agreement State|55356|Somat Engineering|Somat Engineering|3|Waterford|MI||21-24685-01|N||||||Matthew Richardson|Joanna Bridge|07/15/2021|16:19:00|07/15/2021|14:45:00|EDT|7/15/2021 4:29:00 PM|Non Emergency|20.2201(a)(1)(ii)|Lost/Stolen Lnm>10x|||||||KOZAK, LAURA|R3|ILTAB, |EMAIL|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|CNSC (CANADA), -|FAX|||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/13/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: STOLEN TROXLER GAUGE    On July 14, 2021, a technician left a job site unknowingly leaving a Troxler gauge on the tailgate, which subsequently fell off.  The project supervisor was informed of the incident at approximately 1445 EDT.  A local business has still images of an individual in a truck picking up the gauge on the side of the road and driving off. Local law enforcement was called, and an investigation is underway. The Troxler gauge, model number 35/40, 25423, contained 8 mCi of Cs-137 (serial number 75-8257) and 40 mCi of Am-241:BE (serial number 47-21754). The Transport Index is 0.6.    THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Power Reactor|55357|Fermi|Detroit Edison Co.|3|Newport|MI|Monroe||N|05000341|2|||[2] GE-4|John Rodeman|Joanna Bridge|07/15/2021|21:36:00|07/15/2021|17:40:00|EDT|7/22/2021 10:10:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(2)(xi)|Offsite Notification|||||||KOZAK, LAURA|R3|||||||||||||||||||N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: OFFSITE NOTIFICATION DUE TO EXCEEDING NPDES LIMIT    "While preparing for the June 2021 Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR), Environmental was entering data per the lab results that were sent from Pace Analytical for the June DMRs. On June 1, 2021, a National Pollutant Discharge Eliminating System (NPDES) sample was collected at outfall 001A to test for copper, there is a NPDES permit condition to monitor for copper on a quarterly basis. The lab report was returned to Fermi Environmental on June 15, 2021. The results came back at 41.2 micrograms/liter. Fermi's NPDES permit maximum limit is 40 micrograms/liter for outfall 001A. Due to the June 1, 2021 sample exceeding the permit limit, a second sample was collected on June 21, 2021 as a verification sample and the copper results came back July 13, 2021. Those results came back at 5.9 micrograms/liter which is within the permit limit. Environmental was aware of the June 1, 2021 copper exceedance limit but failed to recognize the reporting requirement at the time of the discovery because it was thought that the exceedance would be reported through the DMR submittal. The June DMRs are due on July 20, 2021.    "At approximately 1740 EDT on July 15, 2021, a Fermi environmental engineer was preparing and reviewing the Discharge Monitoring Report and identified that a recent sample result for outfall 001A was outside of the NPDES permit limit for Copper. The Copper sample result was 41.2 micrograms/liter with a limit of 40 micrograms/liter. Subsequent discussions with Environmental personnel determined that this issue should be reported to the state of Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy (EGLE). A discussion is planned with EGLE on July 16, 2021. This notification is being made pursuant to 10 CFR 50.72(b)(2)(xi) based on the planned notification to EGLE."    The licensee notified the NRC Resident Inspector.    * * * UPDATE ON 07/22/2021 AT 2141 FROM MARGARET OFFERLE TO OSSY FONT * * *    The licensee initially reported the lab report was returned to Fermi Environmental on June 15, 2021. The date of receipt was June 16, 2021.    The licensee will notify the NRC Resident Inspector.    Notified R3DO (Pelke).   |\
Agreement State|55358|WISCONSIN RADIATION PROTECTION|3M Company, Corporate Radiation Protection and Compliance|3|Menomonie|WI||033-2030-01|Y||||||Kyle Walton|Donald Norwood|07/16/2021|16:26:00|07/15/2021|15:30:00|CDT|7/16/2021 5:26:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||KOZAK, LAURA|R3|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/16/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - FIXED NUCLEAR GAUGE STUCK SHUTTER    The following information was received via E-mail:    "At 1400 CDT on July 16, 2021, the State was contacted by a representative of the licensee to report a radiation event that had been identified at 1530 CDT on July 15. The licensee was performing routine checks on a fixed gauge device. As part of the checks, they ensure that the shutter is able to be opened and closed. The individual servicing the gauge identified that the shutter was unable to be closed. All indicators are functioning as required to alert that the gauge is open.  Staff who work in the area have been instructed that the device is unable to be closed, and to avoid working around the gauge even when it is not being utilized.    "The device is a Mahlo Model 11-200933, SN: 11-011988-ah-4868. It contains an Eckert and Ziegler Pm-147 source, SN: AH-4968. It has an assay date of 4/15/16, 1000 mCi. It currently contains approximately 250 mCi.    "No exposures of any individuals are suspected.  The manufacturer was notified and is currently coordinating with the licensee to get a service engineer on site. The department will continue to follow-up with the licensee as arrangements are made."    Wisconsin Event Report ID No.:  WI210006|\
Non-Power Reactor|55359|Purdue University|Purdue University|0|West Lafayette|IN|Tippecanoe|R-87|N|05000182||||12 Kw Lockheed Pool|True Miller|Donald Norwood|07/19/2021|13:47:00|02/28/2021|15:00:00|EST|7/19/2021 3:58:00 PM|Non Emergency||Non-Power Reactor Event|50.72(b)(1)|Deviation From T Spec|||||Montgomery, Cindy|NPR PM|Takacs, Michael|NPR ENC|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: REACTOR OPERATED AT GREATER THAN 100 PERCENT TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION POWER LIMIT    "On February 28, 2021, [at approximately 1500 EST], following recalibration of the reactor power in accordance with PUR-1 Technical Specifications, the reactor operator operated the reactor at 8.5 kW (85% of nominal power) and noticed that the rate of temperature change of the coolant was greater than expected.  Noting that this presents the possibility of the power being in excess of expectations, PUR-1 was shut down and has remained shut down to date. PUR-1 staff immediately notified the Committee on Reactor Operations (CORO) and developed a plan to perform an in-depth investigation.     "Since then, multiple independent assessments on the reactor power have been performed, which include: Hand calculations, Monte Carlo N-Particle code (MCNP) simulations, analysis on activity measurements of irradiated materials, a thermal-hydraulic analysis using a Computational Fluid Dynamic (CFD) model of PUR-1, and a more physical assessment using resistance heaters as heat sources to determine the coolant temperature change rate as a function of power and pool temperature, which has just been completed.     "These five independent evaluation methods performed to determine the core power during the experiment on February 28, 2021, suggest that the reactor may have been operated for about 4 hours at a power in the range between 118.3 percent to 129.2 percent of our 12 kW maximum allowable power (per TS 2.2). While the reactor was not operated outside the bounds of the Safety Analysis Report (SAR), this represents a potential need for reporting under TS 6.7.b.1.c.vi, 'An observed inadequacy in the implementation of procedural controls...'.     "Staff are currently evaluating several potential corrective actions including adjustment of the current power calibration constant, which relates the activity of the gold foil to the core power, by the most conservative factor suggested by these five analyses. There was no impact to the safety of the public or PUR-1 staff and the Safety Limit was not exceeded at any point. A formal report will be subsequently issued."  |\
Agreement State|55360|MAINE RADIATION CONTROL PROGRAM|MaineHealth Maine Medical Center|1|Scarborough|ME||ME 05611|Y||||||Catherine Perham|Donald Norwood|07/19/2021|15:38:00|10/19/2020|0:00:00|EDT|7/19/2021 4:31:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||FERDAS, MARC|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - LEAKING SOURCE    The following information was received via E-mail:     "MaineHealth Maine Medical Center reported a leaking Cs-137 source (Eckert & Ziegler Model RV-137-200U, Serial No.: 1490-24-6) that contained an estimated activity of 5.84 MBq (157.8 microCi). The incident was discovered during a semi-annual leak test performed on 10/19/2020. Leak test results revealed 950.9 Bq (0.0257 microCi). The Cs-137 contamination was contained in the drawer the source was stored in. The assumption was made that the source was still leaking and MaineHealth sealed it in its storage lead pig. The outer surface of the lead pig was cleaned and wiped, resulting in removable contamination of less than 200 dpm. The pig was placed in a plastic bag as an extra means of containment and the bag was sealed and labeled. All other items that were contaminated or potentially contaminated in the clean-up process were also placed in a plastic bag, sealed, and labeled. The drawer was cleaned and a final wipe test confirmed that removable contamination was below 200 dpm. The staff who used the source were notified that it was considered out of service and should not be handled or used. The source remained stored in the hot laboratory pending finalization of plans for repair or disposal."    Maine Event Report ID No.:  ME 20-004|\
Agreement State|55361|TEXAS DEPT OF STATE HEALTH SERVICES|Versa Integrity Group, Inc.|4|Houston|TX||L 06669|Y||||||Randall Redd|Donald Norwood|07/19/2021|16:02:00|07/16/2021|0:00:00|CDT|7/19/2021 4:55:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||O'KEEFE, NEIL|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - POSSIBLE OVER-EXPOSURE TO RADIOGRAPHER    The following information was received via E-mail:    "On July 19, 2021, the licensee notified the Agency [Texas Department of State Health Services] that one of its radiographer's personal dosimetry badge results for the monitoring period of June 2021 indicated a deep dose equivalent (DDE) of 5,114 millirem. The radiographer had terminated his employment with the licensee on July 6, 2021. The licensee has contacted the radiographer by phone and the radiographer stated he did not know how it could have happened. The licensee is investigating to determine if the dose was to the radiographer or to the badge only. The licensee also reported that the radiographer had more than one day of work and that the dose to this badge did not occur all within a 24 hour period. An investigation into this event is ongoing."    Texas Incident No.:  9870  |\
Non-Agreement State|55362|Mistras Group, Inc.|Mistras Group, Inc.|3|Heath|OH||12-16559-02|N||||||Matt Kim|Donald Norwood|07/19/2021|16:10:00|07/19/2021|2:00:00|AST|7/19/2021 5:26:00 PM|Non Emergency|20.2202(b)(2)|Excessive Release 1xali|||||||PELKE, PATRICIA|R3|O'KEEFE, NEIL|R4DO|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: TEMPORARY LOSS OF CONTROL OF RADIOGRAPHY EXPOSURE DEVICE    The following is a synopsis of information received via e-mail:    The Mistras Director of Radiation Safety was notified by a Mistras radiographer (working in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska) that an exposure device had been left unsecured in a truck in an ammo can with no lock and without the alarm set. The truck had then been turned in to the Tarmac shop for maintenance.     The Tarmac shop discovered the device in the truck around 0200 AST. Upon discovery of the device, they immediately closed the truck and notified security. They did not handle the device.    The device was retrieved by approved Mistras personnel and placed into the vault at MCC Camp. After being notified of the event, the Director personally verified that the exposure device was secured in the vault. The exposure device involved is Serial Number: D10742, containing 81 Curies of Ir-192.     The location of the event in Prudhoe Bay is a secured location with no access to or from the camp without proper security clearance. The Tarmac shop services all vehicles on the North Slope as they are owned by a Mistras customer.|\
Power Reactor|55363|Nine Mile Point|Constellation Nuclear|1|Syracuse|NY|Oswego||Y||2|||[1] GE-2,[2] GE-5|Dan Hohle|Donald Norwood|07/19/2021|18:27:00|07/19/2021|14:58:00|EDT|7/19/2021 8:19:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(2)(xi)|Offsite Notification|||||||GRAY, MEL|R1|GRANT, JEFFERY|IR|MILLER, CHRIS|NRR EO|||||||||||||||N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: ONSITE MEDICAL EMERGENCY    On July 19, 2021 at 1316 EDT, an individual experienced a non-work related medical emergency. The onsite fire brigade and emergency medical technicians administered first aid, but the individual was unresponsive. The individual was transported to the local hospital. At 1458 EDT, the local hospital notified the station that the individual was deceased. The individual was outside of the radiological controlled area and was not contaminated.|\
Fuel Cycle Facility|55364|Global Nuclear Fuel - Americas|Global Nuclear Fuel - Americas|2|Wilmington|NC|New Hanover|SNM-1097|Y|07001113||||Uranium Fuel Fabrication|Phillip Ollis|Bethany Cecere|07/20/2021|11:11:00|07/19/2021|13:10:00|EDT|7/20/2021 11:19:00 AM|Non Emergency|PART 70 APP A (c)|Offsite Notification/News Rel|||||||NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION|EMAIL|MILLER, MARK|R2DO|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: OFFSITE NOTIFICATION    "At approximately 1310 EDT on July 19, 2021, the New Hanover County Deputy Fire Marshall was notified per State code requirements that the fire suppression system encompassing the Fuel Manufacturing Operation (FMO) was impaired. The electric fire pump was without power as the result of a failure of an electrical feed from Duke Energy. The backup diesel fire pump remained fully operational and available to perform its safety function. Power was restored at approximately 1400 EDT on July 19, and the Deputy Fire Marshall was notified of system restoration. Because the New Hanover County Deputy Fire Marshall was notified, a concurrent notification to the NRC Operations Center is being made per 10 CFR 70, Appendix A(c)."     The licensee will notify the North Carolina Radiation Protection Branch and NRC Region II.  |\
Power Reactor|55365|Farley|Southern Nuclear Operating Company|2|Ashford|AL|Houston||Y|05000348|1|2||[1] W-3-LP,[2] W-3-LP|Roosevelt Scott|Solomon Sahle|07/20/2021|13:06:00|07/20/2021|9:52:00|CDT|7/20/2021 1:46:00 PM|Non Emergency|26.719|Fitness For Duty|||||||MILLER, MARK|R2|FFD GROUP, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation|N|N|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: FITNESS FOR DUTY REPORT    A non-licensed employee supervisor had a confirmed positive for alcohol during a random fitness-for-duty test.  The employee's access to the plant has been terminated.    The NRC Resident Inspector has been notified.|\
Agreement State|55366|LOUISIANA DEQ|Acuren Inspection, Inc.|4|Laporte|LA||LA-7072-L01|Y||||||James Pate|Ossy Font|07/20/2021|19:44:00|07/20/2021|15:30:00|CDT|7/20/2021 7:59:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||O'KEEFE, NEIL|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - RADIOGRAPHY CAMERA SOURCE DISCONNECT    The following synopsis was received from the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (the department) via phone:    The department was notified that the licensee was performing radiography shots with a QSA 880D (s/n #: D11621) at the pipeline just outside Ringgold, LA. When attempting to retract, the drive cable connector came off, leaving the 73 Ci Ir-192 source (s/n: 31880M) in the collimator. The Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) was notified and arrived to retrieve the source. The RSO covered the source with bags of lead shot and replaced the drive cable. The source was disconnected from the source cable and retrieved with tongs.    The two radiographers received 30 and 29 mrem. The RSO received 189 mrem. Since the pipeline is in an isolated area, there were no other workers or member of the public around.|\
Agreement State|55367|OHIO BUREAU OF RADIATION PROTECTION|Prime NDT Services, Inc.|3|Strasburg|OH||03320990003|Y||||||Michael Snee|Jeffrey Whited|07/21/2021|10:00:00|07/20/2021|0:00:00|EDT|7/30/2021 11:08:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||PELKE, PATRICIA|R3|RIVERA-CAPELLA, GRETCHEN|NMSS DAY|KENNEDY, SILAS|IR|DESIREE DAVIS   (ILTAB)|ILTAB|MILLIGAN, PATRICIA|INES|INES - NATIONAL OFFICER|EMAIL|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|CNSC (CANADA), -   (EMAIL)|EMAIL|||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - LOST SOURCE    The following was received from the Ohio Bureau of Radiation Protection via email:    "Prime NDT Services, Inc. reported that a 64.7 Ci Ir-192 source was shipped via [the common carrier] on July 12, 2021 from their facility in Strasburg, Ohio to their facility in Michigan. As of July 21, the source has not been delivered by [the common carrier]. [The common carrier] is aware of the situation and believes that the package was delayed at their facility. On July 20, [the common carrier] informed Prime NDT Services, Inc. that the package could not be located.    "The State of Tennessee has been informed."    Ohio Item Number: OH210007    Notified DHS SWO, DOE Ops Center, FEMA Ops Center, HHS Ops Center, CISA Central, USDA Ops Center, EPA Emergency Ops Center, FDA Emergency Ops Center (email), FEMA NWC (email), DHS Nuclear SSA (email), and FEMA NRCC SASC (email).    * * * UPDATE ON 7/30/2021 AT 1030 EDT FROM MICHAEL SNEE TO SOLOMON SAHLE * * *    The following update was received via an email from the Ohio Department of Health Radiation Protection:    "On July 23, 2021 Prime NDT reported that the source has been located. [The common carrier] indicated that the source was located in their Canton, Ohio facility. Contrary to an earlier report, the source was never transported to [the common carrier] in Memphis, TN. Prime NDT retrieved the source from [the common carrier] facility in Canton."    Notified R3DO (Hanna), INES-National Officer (Smith), ILTAB (Richardson), IR MOC (Grant), NMSS Day (Rivera-Capella), NMSS Events Notification (email), CNSC Canada (email), DHS SWO, DOE Ops Center, FEMA Ops Center, HHS Ops Center, CISA Central, USDA Ops Center, EPA Emergency Ops Center, FDA Emergency Ops Center (email), FEMA NWC (email), DHS Nuclear SSA (email), and FEMA NRCC SASC (email).    THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Category 2' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Category 2 sources, if not safely managed or securely protected, could cause permanent injury to a person who handled them, or were otherwise in contact with them, for a short time (minutes to hours).  It could possibly be fatal to be close to this amount of unshielded radioactive material for a period of hours to days.  These sources are typically used in practices such as industrial gamma radiography, high dose rate brachytherapy and medium dose rate brachytherapy. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Agreement State|55368|CALIFORNIA RADIATION CONTROL PRGM|University of California, San Diego|4|La Jolla|CA||1339-37|Y||||||Donald Oesterle|Ossy Font|07/21/2021|17:21:00|07/20/2021|0:00:00|PDT|7/21/2021 5:34:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||O'KEEFE, NEIL|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - Y-90 BRACHYTHERAPY UNDERDOSE    The following was received from the California Department of Public Health via email:    "A medical event per 10 CFR 35.3045 was determined to have occurred on July 20, 2021, during a liver cancer therapy procedure using Y-90 Nordion TheraSpheres via manual brachytherapy under 10CFR35.1000.    "Dose 1: AU prescribed activity of 109.5 mCi of Y-90 to the patient's liver: right lobe segments 5 and 8 and successfully delivered 104 mCi (95 percent).      "Dose 2:  AU prescribed 153.0 mCi of Y-90 to the patient's liver: right lobe segments 6 and 7, but could only deliver 68.5 mCi (44.8 percent). During the procedure, blockage occurred in the delivery apparatus, specifically the microcatheter, that the authorized user was unable to clear to complete the procedure.     "Pre and post-procedural vial measurements were performed using a calibrated ion chamber by a trained CNMT [Certified Nuclear Medicine Technologist] on July 20, 2021."    5010 Number: 072121    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.|\
Agreement State|55369|ILLINOIS EMERGENCY MGMT. AGENCY|University of Illinois - Chicago|3|Chicago|IL||IL-01883-01|Y||||||Robin Muzzalupo|Ossy Font|07/21/2021|17:36:00|04/23/2021|0:00:00|CDT|7/21/2021 6:16:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||PELKE, PATRICIA|R3|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - Y-90 MICROSPHERE UNDERDOSE    The following was received from the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (the Agency) via email:    "The RSO [Radiation Safety Officer] called the Agency on July 21, 2021, to report that a patient scheduled to receive Y-90 microsphere therapy (SIR Spheres) for hepatocellular cancer on April 23, 2021, received only 35 percent of the dose prescribed in the written directive. The underdosing was reported as due to a clogged catheter. No personnel or area contamination was reported. The licensee reported that the dose delivered was still a `clinically effective dose' to the patient and was following up to see if any further treatment was planned.    "The RSO discovered the underdosing/medical event during an audit he was conducting in Radiation Therapy on July 20, 2021.     "Notification to the referring physician was made as required; however, confirmation that notification to the patient was made is pending.    "A reactionary inspection will be performed."    Item Number: IL210020    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.|\
Power Reactor|55370|Susquehanna|Ppl Susquehanna Llc|1|Allentown|PA|Luzerne||N|05000387|1|||[1] GE-4,[2] GE-4|Robert DiPietro|Ossy Font|07/21/2021|20:50:00|07/21/2021|18:26:00|EDT|7/21/2021 9:16:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(2)(iv)(B)|RPS Actuation - Critical|50.72(b)(3)(iv)(A)|Valid Specif Sys Actuation|||||GRAY, MEL|R1|||||||||||||||||||A/R|Y|100|Power Operation|0|Hot Standby||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AUTOMATIC REACTOR SCRAM    "At 1826 EDT on July 21, 2021, Susquehanna Steam Electric Station Unit 1 reactor automatically scrammed due to a trip of the Main Turbine.    "Unit 1 reactor was operating at 100 percent reactor power with no evolutions in progress. The Control Room received indication of a Main Turbine trip with both divisions of RPS [Reactor Protection System] actuated and all control rods inserted. The Reactor Recirculation Pumps tripped on EOC-RPT [end of cycle recirculation pump trip].  Reactor water level lowered to +8 inches causing Level 3 (+13 inches) isolations. No ECCS [Emergency Core Cooling Systems] or RCIC [Reactor Core Isolation Cooling system] actuations occurred.  The Operations crew subsequently maintained reactor water level at the normal operating band using Reactor Feed Water.      "The reactor is currently stable in Mode 3 with main condenser available. Investigation into the trip of the Main Turbine is in progress.    "The NRC Resident Inspector was notified.  A voluntary notification to PEMA will be made.    "This event requires a 4 hour ENS notification in accordance with 10CFR50.72(b)(2)(iv)(B) and an 8 hour ENS notification in accordance with 10CFR50.72(b)(3)(iv)(A) and 10CFR50.72(b)(3)(iv)(B)."|\
Agreement State|55371|COLORADO DEPT OF HEALTH|UCHealth Greeley Hospital|4|Greenley |CO||CO 1276-01|Y||||||Timothy Thorvaldson|Thomas Herrity|07/22/2021|10:25:00|07/21/2021|0:00:00|MDT|7/22/2021 10:33:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||O'KEEFE, NEIL|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - Y-90 MICROSPHERE UNDERDOSE    The following was received from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment via email:    "Y-90 TheraSphere procedure misadministration: 60.8 mCi was the prescribed dose and 0 mCi was the administered dose."    Colorado Event Report ID No.: CO 210017    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.    |\
Agreement State|55372|PA BUREAU OF RADIATION PROTECTION|Titan Inspection, Inc.|1|Williamsport |PA||PA-1559|Y||||||John S. Chippo|Joanna Bridge|07/22/2021|13:58:00|07/21/2021|0:00:00|EDT|7/23/2021 7:45:00 AM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||GRAY, MEL|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - RADIOGRAPHY SOURCE FAILED TO RETRACT    The following was received via an email from the Pennsylvania Bureau of Radiation:    "The licensee reported that on July 21, 2021, while using a QSA Global Model 880 containing a 135.5 curie source of iridium-192, the source failed to fully retract and lock. The source serial number is 32578M and the camera serial number is D9477. The technicians secured the area by adjusting their 2 mR/hr boundaries to an unshielded source distance and immediately contacted their company [Radiation Safety Officer] (RSO). The licensee then contacted QSA Global who will be onsite on July 22, 2021, to retrieve the source and take the camera and entire crank and assembly mechanism with them for evaluation. The licensee will remain onsite to secure the boundary until QSA arrives. No overexposures have occurred and all proper procedures were followed. The cause of the malfunction remains unknown. More information will be provided when received."    Pennsylvania Event Report ID No.: PA210007    * * * UPDATE ON 7/23/2021 AT 0738 EDT FROM JOHN CHIPPO TO JEFFREY WHITED * * *    The following update was received via an email from the Pennsylvania Bureau of Radiation:    "QSA arrived on site at approximately 2000 EDT on July 22, 2021, and the source was moved to a locked position in the camera at 2155 EDT. At this time the drive cable is suspected to be the problem. The camera and drive system will be evaluated."    Notified R1DO (Gray) and NMSS Events Notification via email.   |\
Agreement State|55373|VIRGINIA RAD MATERIALS PROGRAM|Branscome, Inc.|1|Newport News|VA||830-276-1|Y||||||Asfaw Fenta|Ossy Font|07/22/2021|15:49:00|07/22/2021|9:50:00|EDT|7/22/2021 4:14:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||GRAY, MEL|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - DAMAGE TO PORTABLE MOISTURE DENSITY GAUGE    The following was received from the Virginia Radioactive Materials Program (VRMP) via email:    "On July 22, 2021, at 0950 EDT, VRMP received a report via telephone from the Radiological Duty Officer of the Virginia Office of Radiological Health that a portable nuclear moisture/density gauge was damaged when hit by a car at a temporary jobsite. At 1000 EDT, the VRMP contacted the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) of the licensee. The RSO stated that a Troxler density gauge (Model 4640-B, serial number 2266, containing 8 milliCuries of cesium-137) was hit by a car at a temporary jobsite. The gauge housing was damaged, but the source appeared to remain intact within the safe position. The licensee's survey of the gauge yielded readings of 0.02 mR/hr at about a foot distance from the gauge. The gauge was taken to the licensee's office in its transport container. A survey was also performed on the ground and the reading was reported as background. The gauge will be tested for leakage and after testing, it will be sent to the Troxler Electronics Laboratories for evaluation. The VRMP is working with the licensee to obtain additional information. This report will be updated once the licensee's investigation is complete and the information is received by the VRMP. According to the RSO, no public or personnel exposure occurred."    Event Report ID No.: VA210004|\
Agreement State|55374|CALIFORNIA RADIATION CONTROL PRGM|The Regents of the University of California (UCSF)|4|San Francisco|CA||CA-RML 1725-38|Y||||||L. Robert Greger|Ossy Font|07/22/2021|20:11:00|07/13/2021|0:00:00|PDT|7/22/2021 8:15:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||O'KEEFE, NEIL|R4|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - CONTAMINATED PACKAGE    The following was received from the California Radiologic Health Branch (RHB) via email:    "The licensee reported that on 7/13/2021, they received an externally contaminated package containing two unit doses of F-18 (110 minute T1/2 [half life]). The licensee's receipt survey found the outer surface removable contamination level to be 5,417,497 dpm per 100 sq cm. The inside of the package, including the F-18 vials, were not contaminated. The radiopharmacy courier was informed of the excessive contamination, and the radiopharmacy was contacted. The package radiation levels were acceptable. The package was received from Optimal Tracers (CA-RML 7975).  RHB will investigate this matter further, including onsite at Optimal Tracers' facility."    5010 Number: 071921|\
Power Reactor|55375|North Anna|Dominion Generation|2|Richmond|VA|Louisa||N|05000338|1|2||[1] W-3-LP,[2] W-3-LP,[3] M-4-LP|Marc Hofmann|Ossy Font|07/22/2021|20:28:00|07/22/2021|17:51:00|EDT|7/22/2021 8:53:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(3)(ii)(B)|Unanalyzed Condition|||||||MILLER, MARK|R2|||||||||||||||||||N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation|N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: UNANALYZED CONDITION OF FIRE SAFE SHUTDOWN EQUIPMENT    "On July 20, 2021, at 1707 EDT, an apparent non-compliance with 10 CFR 50, Appendix R, section III.G.2 (separation of redundant fire safe shutdown equipment) was identified. This issue was initially categorized as not affecting train separation or the ability of the equipment to perform their Design Basis functions. The original concern was entered into the licensee's Corrective Action Program as CR1177199.    "Subsequently, on July 22, 2021, at 1751 EDT, a further review of the affected control circuits for the Unit 1 and Unit 2 Emergency Diesel Generator (EDG) output breakers and emergency bus feeder breakers identified a concern that breaker position interlocks routed to or through non-safety related components or spaces may affect the ability to provide emergency power on the affected unit due to impacts on the control power circuits during an Appendix R fire associated with a loss of offsite power.    "The following are the affected fire areas:  - Unit 1 and Unit 2 Turbine Buildings  - Unit 1 and Unit 2 Cable Spreading Rooms  - Unit 1 and Unit 2 Normal (307) Switchgear Rooms    "This condition is being reported pursuant to 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(ii)(B). This is also reportable as a 60-day written report pursuant to 10 CFR 50.73(a)(2)(ii)(B). This event was entered into the licensee's Corrective Action Program as CR 1177399.    "The NRC Resident Inspector has been notified of this event."|\
Agreement State|55376|PA BUREAU OF RADIATION PROTECTION|Geisinger Health System|1|Danville|PA||PA-0006|Y||||||John Chippo|Lloyd Desotell|07/23/2021|13:00:00|07/22/2021|0:00:00|EDT|7/23/2021 1:23:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||GRAY, MEL|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text:   AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - PATIENT UNDER DOSE    The following was received via an email from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) via email:    "On July 22, 2021 a patient was receiving a Lutetium-177 (Lutathera) treatment when technicians had difficulty establishing an IV injection site and flow. Several attempts were made, but ultimately they all failed. The prescribed dose was 200 milliCuries, but it is estimated that the patient received only 18 millicuries. No adverse effects to the patient are noted at this time and none are expected. The patient and prescribing physician have been informed. Preliminary cause is suspected to be poor venous access for patient as well as incorrect gauge needle used for patient access. The DEP will update this event as soon as more information is provided.     "The Department will perform a reactive inspection."    Pennsylvania Event Report ID No: PA210008    A Medical Event may indicate potential problems in a medical facility's use of radioactive materials.  It does not necessarily result in harm to the patient.    |\
Power Reactor|55377|Prairie Island|Nuclear Management Company|3|Welch|MN|Goodhue||N|05000282|1|2||[1] W-2-LP,[2] W-2-LP|Bryan Truckenmiller|Joanna Bridge|07/23/2021|12:06:00|07/23/2021|10:40:00|CDT|7/23/2021 1:33:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(2)(xi)|Offsite Notification|||||||PELKE, PATRICIA|R3|||||||||||||||||||N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation|N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: OFFSITE NOTIFICATION DUE TO FISH KILL    "At approximately 1040 CDT, July 23, 2021, the Minnesota State Duty Officer was notified by Xcel Energy Environmental Services of a fish kill in the Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant discharge canal. The fish kill resulted from a change in temperature due to the loss of power to the plant cooling tower pumps. The cause of the power loss is under investigation.     "This notification is being made as a four-hour, non-emergency notification in accordance with 10 CFR 50.72(b)(2)(xi).     "There was no impact on the health and safety of the public or plant personnel. The NRC Resident Inspector has been notified."     |\
Agreement State|55378|NORTH CAROLINA DIV OF RAD PROTECTIO|Charlotte-Mecklenburg Hospital Authority|1|Charlotte|NC||060-0014-3|Y||||||Travis Cartoski|Lloyd Desotell|07/23/2021|15:52:00|06/30/2021|0:00:00|EDT|7/23/2021 5:06:00 PM|Non Emergency| |Agreement State|||||||GRAY, MEL|R1|NMSS_EVENTS_NOTIFICATION, |EMAIL|ILTAB, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: AGREEMENT STATE REPORT - LOST I-125 BRACHYTHERAPY SEED    The following was received via email from the North Carolina Radiation Protection Section (NC RPS) via email:    "On 07/06/2021 at 1554 EDT [the licensee] Chief Diagnostic Medical Physicist emailed NC RPS about a lost Iodine-125 seed. Seeds are used for localization of non-palpable breast nodules. The event occurred on 06/30/2021 but was not reported to [the Chief Diagnostic Medical Physicist] until 07/06/2021. On 07/07/2021 North Carolina Inspections Supervisor forwarded the email to an Inspector for review.     "The seed was assayed on 06/09/2021 with an activity of 0.15 mCi. The event originated at Atrium Health Union, 600 Hospital Drive, Monroe, NC 28112 under license number 090-0739-1. The seed was identified by imaging at the Monroe Breast Center prior to shipment. Surveys of the transport container were also performed before it left the facility confirming the seed was present. Image was included with follow up email. Atrium Health Union nuclear medical staff used a Ludlum Mo. 14-C with GM pancake probe, serial number 73404, calibration due 07/28/2021. Survey of package exterior showed a reading of 0.05 mR/hr and less than 0.02 mR/hr at one meter. The package left the facility at 1347 EDT on 06/30/2021. A courier service is used to transport specimens.     "Charlotte-Mecklenburg Hospital Authority's Carolinas Medical Center (CMC) pathology lab received the package at 1525 EDT on 06/30/2021. CMC pathology lab staff failed to perform package survey at time of receipt. The specimen was removed from the transport case and radiographed using a Faxitron cabinet x-ray unit on 06/30/2021. At this point, pathology staff found that the seed was not present in the specimen tissue. Image was included with initial notification email. At this point, pathology staff did not follow established procedures to notify CMC Radiation Safety staff.    "On 07/06/2021 [the CMC] Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) was notified of the incident. Radiation Safety staff immediately went to the CMC pathology lab and surveyed the lab using a Ludlum Mo. 2241 with a NaI probe, serial number 217339. Surveying began at 0830 EDT on 07/06/2021. The transport container, all work areas, all biological waste containers, floor areas, counters, and all areas where the seed could be located were surveyed. All readings were at background radiation levels (<0.02 mR/hr) and seed was not located.    "Seed Information:  Manufacturer: Best Medical  Lot#: 52188A-6  Radiation Type: low E gamma emitter  Activity: 0.15 mCi, assayed on 06/09/2021    "Licensee identified multiple failures which lead to the incident, including:  1. Failure of pathology lab staff to carefully handle specimen.  2. Failure to notify RSO at initial finding of incident.  3. Failure of pathology lab to follow established procedures.  4. Receiving notification at such a later date greatly diminishes likelihood of finding lost seed.    "Licensee proposed several corrective actions to prevent reoccurrence, including:  1. All pathology staff on radiation program will receive refresher training.  2. CMC pathology will have more accountability regarding the handling of radioactive material.  3. All specimens containing radioactive material received from outside facilities must be received at CMC pathology lab prior to 1600 EDT.  4. Extra stickers and labels will be utilized to clearly identify specimens containing radioactive material.  5. CMC pathology lab will handle specimens with extreme caution due to small size of seeds."    North Carolina Incident Number: NC210012    THIS MATERIAL EVENT CONTAINS A 'Less than Cat 3' LEVEL OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL    Sources that are "Less than IAEA Category 3 sources," are either sources that are very unlikely to cause permanent injury to individuals or contain a very small amount of radioactive material that would not cause any permanent injury. Some of these sources, such as moisture density gauges or thickness gauges that are Category 4, the amount of unshielded radioactive material, if not safely managed or securely protected, could possibly - although it is unlikely - temporarily injure someone who handled it or were otherwise in contact with it, or who were close to it for a period of many weeks. For additional information go to  http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/Pub1227_web.pdf|\
Power Reactor|55379|Sequoyah|Tennessee Valley Authority|2|Soddy-Daisy|TN|Hamilton||Y||2|||[1] W-4-LP,[2] W-4-LP|Ben Hammargren|Brian P. Smith|07/25/2021|16:00:00|07/25/2021|12:38:00|EDT|7/25/2021 4:08:00 PM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(3)(v)(C)|Pot Uncntrl Rad Rel|50.72(b)(3)(v)(D)|Accident Mitigation|||||MILLER, MARK|R2|||||||||||||||||||N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: SURVEILLENCE FREQUENCY EXCEEDED FOR ICE CONDENSER TEMPERATURE    "At 1238 EDT on July 25, 2021, the Unit 2 Ice Bed became INOPERABLE due to SR [Surveillance Requirement] 3.6.12.1 exceeding its surveillance interval. LCO [Limiting Condition for Operation] 3.6.12 was declared not met as required by SR 3.0.1.    "SR 3.6.12.1 to verify maximum ice bed temperature is less than or equal to 27 degrees F could not be completed due to a failed temperature recorder. The results of the backup method of temperature verification were verified satisfactory at 1258 EDT and the LCO condition was then exited.    "The ice bed is a single train system which functions to control radiation release and mitigate the consequences of an accident by scrubbing radioactive iodine and providing a heat sink to limit containment pressure within design limits, therefore the requirements of 10 CFR 50.72 (b) (3) (v) (C) and (D) were met.    "There was no impact on the health and safety of the public or plant personnel. The NRC Resident Inspector has been notified."|\
Non-Power Reactor|55380|Univ Of Missouri-Columbia|University Of Missouri|3|Columbia|MO|Boone|R-103|N|05000186||||10000 Kw Tank|Bruce Meffert|Thomas Herrity|07/27/2021|13:56:00|07/26/2021|17:31:00|CDT|7/27/2021 2:38:00 PM|Non Emergency||Non-Power Reactor Event|||||||Wertz, Geoffrey|HQ PM |Helvenston, Edward Edward |HQ PM |Takacs, Michael|NPR Even|Schuster, William|NPR Even|||||||||||||N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|N|N|0|Power Operation|0|Power Operation|EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: REACTOR SHUTDOWN DUE TO CONTROL ROD DRIVE FAILURE    "On July 26, 2021 at 1731 CDT, while the reactor was subcritical during a reactor startup, the University of Missouri-Columbia Research Reactor (MURR) was manually shut down due to the failure of the control rod drive mechanism for shim control blade B.  MURR was not in compliance with one (1) Limiting Conditions of Operations (LCO).  TS 3.2.a states, 'All control blades, including the regulating blade, shall be operable during reactor operation.'    "A spare control rod drive mechanism was installed for control blade B, post-installation operability testing was conducted satisfactorily, and permission from the Reactor Facility Director was obtained prior to the reactor returning to operation later on July 26, 2021.  Currently, MURR is operating at 10 MW [full power].  A detailed event report will follow within 14 days."  |\
Power Reactor|55384|Seabrook|Fpl Energy Seabrook|1|Manchester|NH|Rockingham||Y|05000443|1|||[1] W-4-LP|Barry Bradbury |Thomas Herrity|07/28/2021|16:30:00|07/28/2021|13:45:00|EDT|7/28/2021 4:40:00 PM|Non Emergency|26.719|Fitness For Duty|||||||CAHILL, CHRISTOPHER|R1|FFD GROUP, |EMAIL|||||||||||||||||N|Y|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: FITNESS FOR DUTY REPORT    A licensed employee had a confirmed positive for alcohol during a random fitness-for-duty test.  The employee's access to the plant has been suspended.    The NRC Resident Inspector has been notified.|\
Power Reactor|55385|Columbia Generating Station|Energy Northwest|4|Richland|WA|Benton||Y|05000397|2|||[2] GE-5|Tracy Howard|Bethany Cecere|07/30/2021|0:16:00|07/29/2021|16:51:00|PDT|7/30/2021 12:31:00 AM|Non Emergency|50.72(b)(3)(v)(C)|Pot Uncntrl Rad Rel|50.72(b)(3)(v)(D)|Accident Mitigation|||||PICK, GREG|R4|||||||||||||||||||N|N|100|Power Operation|100|Power Operation||N|0||0|||N|0||0||EN Revision Imported Date: 8/18/2021<br><br>EN Revision Text: INOPERABLE SECONDARY CONTAINMENT    "At 0922 PDT, on 07/28/21, the reactor building roof hatch was opened to support maintenance activities on the roof. Secondary containment differential pressure lowered and was recovered by the operating crew. Secondary containment differential pressure was maintained negative during the transient and was verified to have met technical specification requirements the whole time, however it was not identified at the time that the secondary containment was inoperable due to the roof hatch exceeding the allowable containment breech size and as such a TS 3.6.4.1.A entry was warranted.    "This report is being made pursuant to 10 CFR 50.72(a)(1)(ii) when it was identified that the secondary containment was inoperable while the roof hatch was open and a report should have been made under 10 CFR 50.72(b)(3)(v)(C) and (D) for loss of safety function.     "There were no radiological releases, system actuations, or isolations associated with this event."    The licensee has notified the NRC Resident Inspector.  |\
}